written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-History.txt:In fact, the only rightful claimant to the crown was the elderly Prince Henry. But after two years of alternating between the throne and his sickbed, he died, heirless. Surveying the situation and smelling an opportunity, Spain occupied the power vacuum, and Portugal’s neighbor and long-time antagonist became its master.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhatToDo.txt:Antiques. The rich legacy of the Dutch colonial period makes Amsterdam one of the most interesting cities for antiques. European period furniture mixes with Southeast Asian artifacts, and art — there are dealers in almost every different specialist area. This is not a place for amateur collectors; prices are high but so is quality, the expertise of the dealers, and the advice which they give. Many of the finest shops are found around Nieuwe Spiegalstraat and the small streets leading from the Rijksmuseum back towards the city center, there are also a number on Rokin.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhatToDo.txt:Delftware. The pottery style we now know as Delft (after the city to the southeast of Amsterdam) was produced in potteries all across the country during the Golden Age. There was a famous factory in Prinsengracht in the 1600s, which produced many fine pieces. The blue and white finish is standard Delft and you will find it at many high class outlets with prices which match the quality. Small porcelain likenesses of canal houses look pretty in the windows of houses and hotels. You can buy several of these to make your own line of narrow gables.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhereToGo.txt:Since time immemorial this forlorn place has stirred the imagination. It stirred Henry and his sailors, who are said to have set up camp at the Fortaleza de Sagres (Fortress) that sits on the promontory. Unfortunately, not much of the original has survived. Most of it is a 17th-century fort that was insensitively restored. In 1991, the walls of this nationally important monument were resurfaced with gray concrete, destroying the external character of the building. The fortress’s principal building, which may have been Henry’s headquarters, has been demolished. What you’ll find inside is a small 16th-century chapel, Nossa Senhora da Graça, and what looks to be a huge stone sun dial, known as the Rosa dos Ventos (Rose Compass). Whether, in fact, it was a wind compass useful in the great voyages is unknown. A modern shell on the fort’s grounds houses an exhibition area.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhereToGo.txt:The Convento de Nossa Senhora da Assunção (Convent of Our Lady of the Assumption), which contains the most beautiful cloister in southern Portugal. The first Renaissance building in the Algarve, it was constructed in the 16th century on the site of the old Jewish quarter (Faro had a sizeable Jewish population in the Middle Ages). Abandoned as a convent in the 19th century and then put to improbable use as a cork factory, it has now been beautifully restored as a museum devoted to archaeology, the Museu Arqueológico Infante Dom Henrique. The principal exhibit is a 2,000-year-old Roman floor mosaic measuring 9 m (30 ft) long and 3 m (10 ft) wide. Unearthed in Faro, it is nicknamed the “Ocean Mosaic,” for it depicts a bearded sea-god (though the bulldozer that discovered it in 1976 shaved off the lower half of his face). There are also busts taken from the Roman ruins at Milreu. Displays of Portuguese art are housed in the many rooms off the cloister.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhereToGo.txt:In the 1500s, Tavira had the largest population on the Algarve. This tuna-fishing port and self-assured town of historic churches, imposing classical-style mansions, and riverfront gardens probably dates back as far as the Phoenicians or the Carthaginians. In fact, its seven-arched stone bridge of Roman origin is still in use.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Algarve-WhereToGo.txt:The city is built on hills — by legend seven, in fact many more — but the great thing for the visitor is the splendid vantage points and lookouts that these provide. The best place to start your tour of Lisbon is from the Moors’ old castle, the Castelo de São Jorge, the king of all vantage points. From here you can look out over the whole of the city and along the broad Rio Tejo (River Tagus), spanned by the longest suspension bridge in Europe.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-History.txt:The Dutch also looked to the west, and in 1609 sent Englishman Henry Hudson to search for a route to China. In fact, he landed far from China and discovered the river which still bears his name — the Hudson; he also traded with the native peoples for the purchase of Manhattan Island and travelled to the Caribbean, taking several islands as Dutch colonies.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-History.txt:In the latter part of the century there were anti-Orange demonstrations by pro-French factions in the country, and in 1795 Napoleon Bonaparte took the Netherlands in his epic march across Europe. Under the yoke of another foreign power, and with trade at an all time low, the Golden Age was truly dead.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-Intro.txt:Without doubt, the initial lure of the city is its numerous historic buildings. The lines of tall, narrow houses with their pretty gables rest beside picture-perfect tree-lined canals. They are connected by ornate iron bridges and cobbled walkways, which have changed little for over 300 years, in fact, since they felt the footfall of such inhabitants as the artist Rembrandt and explorer Abel Tasman, who gave his name to Tasmania.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-Intro.txt:This was typical of the populace, and it wasn’t the first time; in fact Amsterdammers have been standing up for what they believe in for centuries. When Protestants were persecuted in the 16th century, they flocked here from all around Europe to take refuge. During WWII, the dock workers of Amsterdam went on strike as an act of protest against the treatment of the Jews in the city. Although in the end the protest was futile, it shows the strength of feeling and social awareness that pervades every part of society here. As the 21st century begins, Amsterdam has over 100 different nationalities living within the city boundaries, a situation which could be fraught with difficulty and strain. Yet here it only adds to the cultural richness built up over centuries of exploration and trade.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-Intro.txt:Perhaps the most widely publicized acts of tolerance in recent history have been in the areas of sex and drugs. Amsterdammers looked at feasible and practical responses to the issues, and decriminalized some aspects of both. This does not make the city one huge den of iniquity and these areas are still controlled and regulated; in fact, you could visit Amsterdam and be quite unaware of these activities. There’s just a recognition here that provided no harm comes to you or others around you, then you should be free, as an adult, to make your own choices.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-Intro.txt:Amsterdammers fight for everyone’s rights against oppression, or the right of David to stand against the faceless Goliath of bureaucracy. In fact in Amsterdam several thousand Davids get together to form a pressure group, and Goliath has to sit up and take notice. This doesn’t mean that Amsterdam is utopia — it is a city of 21st-century pressures, particularly with continuing problems of traffic and litter — but it does mean that the problems are faced realistically, debated passionately by the whole community, and agreed solutions are put into action. When the solutions don’t work (as they often don’t) the whole process starts over again. It is all seen as part of a huge learning curve.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-Intro.txt:Of course, Amsterdammers don’t spend all their time waving protest banners. They are as industrious and hardworking as their forefathers. They enjoy galleries and exhibitions as much as the visitors do — in fact it can be very hard to get tickets for performances because of local demand. On weekends they head to the parks to picnic, or out of the city in large groups to do more cycling. They eat out in restaurants and cafés — where they have over 50 different types of cuisine to choose from. They love to socialize, and bars — particularly the famous “brown bars” — are the place where they meet, usually to put the world to rights. In summer they sit out with a drink as bar owners put out tables in the squares and on street corners. Sit at a table and you’ll soon find yourself engaged in conversation (most Amsterdammers speak good English). Within an hour you’ll feel like a local.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhatToDo.txt:Antiques. The rich legacy of the Dutch colonial period makes Amsterdam one of the most interesting cities for antiques. European period furniture mixes with Southeast Asian artifacts, and art — there are dealers in almost every different specialist area. This is not a place for amateur collectors; prices are high but so is quality, the expertise of the dealers, and the advice which they give. Many of the finest shops are found around Nieuwe Spiegalstraat and the small streets leading from the Rijksmuseum back towards the city center, there are also a number on Rokin.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhatToDo.txt:Delftware. The pottery style we now know as Delft (after the city to the southeast of Amsterdam) was produced in potteries all across the country during the Golden Age. There was a famous factory in Prinsengracht in the 1600s, which produced many fine pieces. The blue and white finish is standard Delft and you will find it at many high class outlets with prices which match the quality. Small porcelain likenesses of canal houses look pretty in the windows of houses and hotels. You can buy several of these to make your own line of narrow gables.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhereToGo.txt:Southeast of Artis, across two canals and busy roads, is Oosterpark, an open green area with a lake and play areas (we would suggest taking a tram — numbers 9 and 14 — rather than walking here from the city center). In the northern corner of the park is the Tropenmuseum, once the home of the Dutch Colonial Institute. The building itself was built in 1926 and built especially to house the institute’s collection of artifacts from the tropics.Today the aim of the museum is to improve our knowledge of the world’s tropical areas, and promotes an understanding of the peoples in these developing parts of the world. A vast collection of artifacts from the former Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) was the starting point for the displays, which range from tribal masks to tools and utensils in daily use. Recreations of a Bombay street and Arab souk, among other locales, bring home the reality of life in these very different societies. The museum also has a Kindermuseum (Children’s Museum) offering 6–12 year olds a chance to explore the collection and interact with the exhibits. Special guides lead children through the artifacts and explain their context. The Kindermuseum must be booked in advance and at present the tours are in Dutch only.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhereToGo.txt:Downstairs were the offices and warehouses of Mr Frank’s business, which have been recreated in a multimillion dollar development opened in September 1999. Two adjacent buildings have been bought by the museum and refurbished, adding much-needed exhibition and audio-visual space, without compromising number 263 itself. You’ll see videos of Anne’s story and of Amsterdam under occupation along with photographs and artifacts of the time. Anne Frank Huis also acts as an education center and resource for political and philosophical groups fighting oppression in the present day.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhereToGo.txt:This landscape is no accident or happy coincidence but a living museum created in 1960, which has brought together a number of farmhouses, windmills, dairies, and barns — real agricultural buildings which would have been demolished had they not been relocated here. Zaanse Schans has working mills, cheese-making factories, and clog workshops, situated on a canalside. You are free to explore at your own pace and maybe enjoy a pannekoeken (pancake) while you’re there.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhereToGo.txt:The pretty gabled buildings which line the main street were once cottages for fisherfolk and the small port still plays host to a fleet of ships. Many are now in private hands, or work as pleasure boats in the summer season. There is also a large, private marina filled with sailboats which head out on to the open water on any sunny weekend. Walk around the old port to find vestiges of the traditional lifestyle. A few families still fish for eels, and process them in small “factories” along the quayside. In summer you can buy the catch of the day from stalls in the town. There are also some good fish restaurants around the harbor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Amsterdam-WhereToGo.txt:On the banks of the River Spaarne is Teylers Museum, founded by silk merchant Pieter Teyler van der Hulst in 1778, and said to be Holland’s oldest public collection. Teyler, having no heir, bequeathed his fortune to the advancement of the arts and sciences, and there is an interesting collection of scientific instruments among other artifacts. The museum has collections ranging from minerals and fossils, to medals and coins.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-History.txt:Athens, the largest city-state, gradually embraced all of the Attica peninsula. King Theseus, the legendary ruler who slew the minotaur in the Cretan labyrinth, was revered by Athenians for bringing Attica’s scattered and independent villages under the rule of the Acropolis. Countless urns and jars were decorated with drawings of his heroic exploits, but in fact he belongs to myth rather than to history. The villages actually merged with Athens in exchange for protection, a share of state offices, and full citizenship rights.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-History.txt:Yet culturally and intellectually Athens still remained unsurpassed through the fourth century b.c. Aristotle, one of the world’s greatest philosophers, held forth at his own school of the Lyceum; Menander wrote comic plays; Praxiteles sculpted scores of superb statues, including that of Hermes, one of the greatest Greek sculptures, now in the museum at Olympia. This age, in fact, had an even more lasting influence than that exerted by Athens during its great “Classical” fifth century. Rome and Byzantium looked to it for inspiration, as Europe did in the Medieval and Renaissance periods.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-History.txt:The war left Greece utterly devastated, and the factions squabbled ceaselessly in an attempt to gain political advantage. Communist and royalist partisans moved steadily toward a military confrontation as the United States, under the Truman Doctrine, sent the first economic aid. Two years of savage civil war ended in late 1949 with Communist defeat, but political instability persisted.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-Intro.txt:Athenians left an enduring legacy of concepts and ideas for humankind but they also bequeathed a remarkable number of buildings and artifacts that tell us about their lives. The remains of the temples of the Acropolis are recognized worldwide and hundreds of statues, along with ordinary household pottery, jewelry, and tools hold a fascination for anyone who enjoys exploring the past.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-Intro.txt:Perhaps this picture seems a little bleak, but there is one positive factor that eases the concern about visiting Athens. It’s so easy to escape the city completely that one needn’t feel trapped by the urban environment. Within an hour of being at Syntagma Square outside the National Parliament building (the symbolic heart of the city), you could easily be sitting at the quayside of some small Greek island having a cooling drink, or enjoying the pine forest of the countryside of Attica — the region that surrounds the capital. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhatToDo.txt:Ceramics: The skills honed at Kerameik��s centuries ago are still much in evidence on the streets of Athens. You can buy exquisite hand-thrown and painted copies of ancient pieces for a price, and numerous examples of less expensive factory produced items. Traditional shapes of urns, jugs, and cups are decorated with scenes taken from the lives of the ancients or of the Greek gods in their domain on Mount Olympus. Modern ceramic artists also thrive and there are many small galleries showcasing hand created pieces. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhatToDo.txt:Statuary: If you want a little piece of ancient Greece then you’ll certainly be able to find it. It will be a reproduction of course — but still you can own your own copy of Zeus, Poseidon, or Athena herself, small enough to grace a table or large enough to decorate a garden. Plaques depicting ancient friezes, or masks to hang on walls are also extremely popular, as are Mycenaean helmets. If classical statuary is too ornate for your taste, you can also find copies of the minimalist Mycenaean statues found at the Goulandris Museum. The National Archaeological Museum also has a wide range of copies of its artifacts. Each comes with a certificate of authentication.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:The Parthenon was dedicated to Athena and means Temple of the Virgin — Athena in her guise as protector of the city, goddess of wisdom and justice. It also housed the national treasury, bringing together the spiritual and secular power of ancient Greece. At least four other Parthenons have been built on the site — in fact, the base of the present temple indicates that its predecessor was wider. Designed by architects Callicrates and Iktinus, work began in 447 b.c. and the temple was dedicated in 438 b.c. with a huge celebration, the Panathenaic Festival, that involved thousands of people; live animals were sacrificed at an altar on the eastern façade. This festival then took place every four years during the Pagan era and continued until the fifth century a.d. (see page 42). Converted into a church in the sixth century, the cella (inner temple) had frescoes painted on its walls and upper galleries where women worshipped. A bell tower was added by the Byzantines who named it Agia Sophia, also meaning wisdom. Later, under Ottoman rule, the bell tower became a minaret and the church was converted into a mosque.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:At Kidathinéon 17 you’ll find the Museum of Greek Folk Art, which offers an interesting collection of embroidery, lace, and numerous liturgical garments. Spinning and weaving is also highlighted along with traditional puppets and festival masks and costumes. The collection features artifacts from all over Greece and her islands. Other divisions of the folk art museum can be found around the city. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:One mansion on Odós Panós, high up near the Acropolis, has been turned into a museum. The Kanellópoulos Museum, which opened in 1976, has a family collection of artifacts from many eras of Athens’ history. Mycenaean figurines and pottery, Classical Greek and Roman sculpture, and Byzantine icons, frescoes and tapestries are all well-displayed and illustrate very effectively the varied influences that make up the history of the city.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:The eastern flank of the Agora site is dominated by the Stoa of Attalos. First erected by King Attalos of Pergamon and opened in 138 b.c., it was faithfully recreated during the 1950s to offer us a stunning vision of what communal buildings were like in ancient times. Stoas were extremely popular in the Roman era and all large settlements had one. These long porches or porticos provided shade in summer and shelter in winter and they were often used to link important community buildings. The Stoa of Attalos was a two-story construction with rooms at the back that housed small shops. Today it is home to the Agora Museum and displays numerous artifacts found at this extensive sight. Here you’ll find a range of everyday objects not seen in the Acropolis Museum, in addition to religious and civic statuary and mosaics.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Kerameikós was named for the potters who worked here within the city walls (Inner Kerameikós), directly on the site of good clay deposits. Their work was carried around the Greek empire and is now displayed in museums worldwide, but they were not highly regarded by citizens in ancient times. Outside the wall (Outer Kerameikós), was the major cemetery of the city (it was forbidden to bury the dead within the city walls), with burials dating from the 12th century b.c. Major figures from Greek history, including Pericles, were buried here and their funerary artifacts are some of the most exquisite items found during excavations around the city. A small museum has burial finds dating from 12th–sixth centuries b.c. but you’ll see many more in the National Archaeological Museum.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:In the prehistoric collection (rooms 3–6) enjoy the treasure-trove found at Mycenae, including the exquisite, gold Mask of Agamemnon. Schiemann thought that this was placed over the face of the dead King Agamemnon around 1200 b.c., but in fact it dates from over 300 years earlier; the prehistoric rooms also have a collection of Cycladic figures dating from the third millennium b.c. The simple, rounded female figures were funerary or religious objects and are in total contrast to the intricate pediment and frieze carvings and religious statuary found at temples on the Acropolis and in the Acropolis Museum. You’ll also see a rare male figure among the collection, and the beautiful Harp Player — a more complex carving in the same style.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Rooms 36–39 have a collection of bronzes including votive offerings found at the Idaean Cave in Crete — mythical birthplace of the god Zeus. Rooms 40 and 41 display artifacts from Egypt covering every era of history in the land of the Pharaohs, including the Ptolemaic period when Ptolemy (a general under Alexander the Great, and therefore of Greek descent) took control of Egypt. One of his descendants was Cleopatra, perhaps this most famous ancient queen. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Second floor room 48 is devoted to finds from Akrotiri, a 16th century b.c. settlement on Santorini in the Aegean. The frescoes found while excavating the site are particularly fine and offer a glimpse into a world lost through a devastating earthquake around 1500 b.c. The remaining rooms on the second floor — 49–56 — feature an amazing collection of pottery and miniature objects, in contrast to the epically proportioned artifacts on the ground floor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Three major thoroughfares run parallel between Omonia Square and nearby Syntagma Square. Stadhiou is perhaps the busiest, with several major department stores and high-class stores that sell jewelry and the best designer names, plus two modern stoas packed with bookstores. When you reach the small square of Klathmonos you’ll find the Museum of the City of Athens housed in the former King Otto’s palace of the 19th century. Nearer to Syntagma, in Koloktroni Square, is the National Historical Museum with a collection of artifacts dating from post-Classical times. This is a useful museum to visit if you have a particular interest in post-independence Greece, as many artifacts add detail to the individuals and incidents that shaped the new country.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Northeast of Stadhiou is Panepistimiou (University Street), officially named Elefthería Venizélou after the Cretan statesman. This also plays host to several important buildings. The National Library, University, and National Academy all sit here, confirming it as the academic and intellectual heart of modern Athens. All three are Neo-Classical in design and made of Pentelic marble, helping to give a feel of how the Agora of the ancient city may have looked at its prime. The Academy (1859) is perhaps the most impressive of the three and was designed by Theophilus Hansen — pre-eminent architect of his generation. A native of Denmark, Hansen was responsible for the Zappion and Royal Observatory in Athens, and numerous buildings in Vienna, Austria. The seated figures of Plato and Socrates sit guarding the Academy entrance and an intricately carved pediment depicts the gods and goddesses of the ancient world; these were sculpted by Leonídas Drósis. Come and look at these carvings through binoculars to get a feel of how richly decorated the temples and communal buildings of the ancient world originally were. Walking towards Syntagma you’ll pass the Renaissance-style house of Heinrich Schliemann, that most famous of archaeologists, who was instrumental in turning the myth of the Mycenaeans and the Trojan War into fact.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Leading directly east from Syntagma Square is Avenue Vas. Sofias. This main thoroughfare, with a number of major embassies, leads to several important museums all within strolling distance or close to the Evangelismos Metro station. Closest to Syntagma is the Benáki Museum, a collection donated to the state by Andónis Benáki on his death in 1954. Benáki was born in a Greek community in Egypt, and many of the artifacts on display originate from this other ancient land, though there is a good range of Classical and Roman statuary, and collections from the Early Christian and Byzantine eras including two paintings by El Greco.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Across Avenue Vas. Sofias you’ll find the Byzantine Museum housed in a splendid 19th-century mansion built for Sophie de Marbois, wife of one of Napoleon’s generals. She was a stalwart of Greek nationalism. The museum holds a wealth of artifacts from the early Christian and Byzantine eras, concentrating on the religious themes that were so important in unifying the Greek world at this time. The collection was amassed from churches all across Greece and Asia Minor (on the western coast of modern-day Turkey). On the ground floor, the interiors of several churches of differing ages have been reassembled to explain the development of architectural styles  — very useful if you intend to visit a range of churches during your stay. The upper floors display excellent examples of icons and frescoes, vestments, and other religious objects.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:From the south side of Zea harbor it is only a short walk to the Archaeological Museum of Piraeus. The rather dour building hides a treasure-trove of statuary and other artifacts found during excavation of the ancient shrines of the city, and communal buildings such as the Agora. Pride of place goes to the Piraeus Kouros, the oldest full-size bronze figure depicting the god Apollo. On the grounds of the museum are scant remains of the ancient Theater of Zea.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Walking further south along the promenade past remnants of the ancient sea wall brings you to another small bay where you will find the Hellenic Maritime Museum, a semicircular museum with small garden in front complete with cannon. Rooms display an eclectic series of artifacts with dioramas of the great Battle of Salamis in 480 b.c., letters from the naval heroes of Greek independence, and numerous items salvaged from the seas around the Attica coastline.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Schliemann found the remains of the city of Mycenae buried under thousands of years worth of debris in a sheltered valley some 60 km (40 miles) south of Corinth. It was so well hidden that the site had been completely forgotten, and it surprisingly had not been plundered by robbers. The military might of the Mycenaeans had been well documented by Homer, but nothing could prepare the archaeologists for the artistic treasures found at the site. As they dug through the remains, the tombs of several kings were discovered; each skeleton lay where it had been carefully buried, the faces covered in a mask of pure gold. Exquisite statuary and intricate jewelry found in the family tombs below show a softer side of these enigmatic people and brought the world of Agamemnon to life. All the artifacts from the site were taken to Athens and many are now on display in the National Archaeological Museum.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:Athens has a beautiful downtown area but it is one of the largest cities in Europe, and it also has an industrial element mostly based around the southern and eastern suburbs. Incongruous among the landscapes of oil refineries and factories you’ll find historical gems to explore. Ten kilometers (6 miles) west of Athens is the Monastery of Daphni (soon to be linked with the downtown area by Metro extension) built on the site of an earlier Temple of Apollo. Founded in the fifth or sixth century a.d., the site was refurbished and extended in the 11th century but sacked and abandoned before being occupied by Orthodox monks in the 16th century. Restoration took place after WWII and again in the 1960s. The pretty Byzantine church (c1080) has a stone-and-tile dome exterior but is famed throughout Greece for the fantastic mosaics that decorate the interior, particularly that of Christ Pantocrator in the main dome.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:In Eleusis the sacred way led directly to the Sanctuary of Demeter and a large Temple of Artemis with a forecourt where the initiates would gather in preparation for the procession. A great Propylaia marked the entrance to the town  — a copy of that at the Acropolis. The Precinct of Demeter lay in a walled complex, and its inner sanctum, the Periklean Telesterion, where only initiates were allowed to enter, sat within the temple. You will also find the remains of more mundane structures such as the Bouleuterion and gymnasium. A museum on site displays extremely good artifacts found among the ruins.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Athens-WhereToGo.txt:A modern road cuts through the remains and the approach to the site from the parking lot leads first to the Roman Agora, where pilgrims would stock up on supplies and offerings for the temple only a few minutes away. Here you can see the remains of the Sanctuary of Apollo, the nearby waters of the Kastalian Springs where pilgrims would purify themselves before their consultation, and the Rock of Sybil where the oracle proclaimed the verdict of the gods. The modern museum has a wonderful collection of statuary, treasure, and other artifacts found at the site.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-History.txt:Over the centuries, trouble on the nearby American continent has often meant good news for the Bahamas. When Lincoln ordered a blockade of the southern states in 1861 after the outbreak of the Civil War, the Bahamas quickly boomed. Nassau harbor was busy with ships unloading Confederate cotton and tobacco and taking aboard arms, medicine, and manufactured goods, mainly from Europe, to be run back through the northern blockade. As the war went on, speedy and camouflaged contraband vessels were built to slip past the ever-increasing Federal patrols. Profits from blockade running were incredible, and Nassau went wild. But the extravagant parties and carefree spending stopped abruptly with the North’s victory in 1865. Late the following year an immense hurricane sent a tidal wave over Hog Island (today Paradise Island), smashing Nassau’s flimsy buildings and ruining crops. Other islands were also devastated. As the Bahamas sank back into economic doldrums, citizens turned to agriculture, fishing, or salt raking. The spread of lighthouses and decent navigational charts had crippled the old standby, the wrecking trade.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-History.txt:Prohibition brought gloom to millions of Americans, but for the Bahamas it brought the biggest bonanza in history. At the end of 1919, Congress passed the Volstead Act outlawing the manufacture, sale, or transport of intoxicating beverages. The Bahamian islands (where the temperance crusade never had much chance) were perfectly placed to help thirsty Americans. For 14 years, until the controversial law was finally repealed, bootlegging changed Nassau, West End on Grand Bahama, and Bimini beyond recognition. With just as much gusto as they’d shown in the past for wrecking, privateering, and blockade running, Bahamians took to the seas with illegal liquor. Trying to outwit the US Coast Guard was risky but enormously profitable. Fortunes were made by respected Bahamian families turned liquor merchants, rum-running boat captains, notorious criminals, shady ladies, and the Bahamas government (which collected duty on temporarily imported drink).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-History.txt:In 1943 the Duke intervened in the investigation of the murder of Canadian multimillionaire Sir Harry Oakes, a longtime benefactor of the Bahamas who gave his name to Nassau’s first airfield. The sensational case, never solved, made world headlines for the Bahamas and is still discussed today.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-History.txt:After the construction of the first wartime American air bases on New Providence was completed, thousands of Bahamians left to work on farms and in factories in the United States, a migration that continued well into the postwar era. But employment opportunities began to grow at home. From 1950, a promotion campaign under Sir Stafford Sands was hugely successful in attracting tourists to the Bahamas. Denied the sun, sand, and sin of Cuba by Fidel Castro’s takeover in 1959, hundreds of thousands of American vacationers set their sights on the Bahamas. The influx was spurred by gambling, airport and harbor improvement on the major islands, and the creation of the modern city of Freeport (which had been set in motion by the so-called Hawksbill Creek Agreement of 1955). Resort hotels began to appear and the advent of air-conditioning improved the often stifling humidity of summer.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-Intro.txt:Every island has its own individual character, forged by a unique history and development, in fact the Bahamas could be said to be several different holiday experiences in one country, so it’s important to choose your island carefully to get the kind of holiday you want.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:Across Nassau Harbour north of the town is Paradise Island, known until the 1940s as Hog Island. For many centuries the island simply acted as a protective barrier against bad weather and attack from invaders. Its recent history is fascinating: In the 1930s it was owned by Swedish millionaire Axel Wenner-Gren, an arms manufacturer who was found to be a Nazi sympathizer. He sold the island to Huntingdon Hartford, who changed the name from Hog to Paradise and created a beautiful private retreat, now the Ocean Club Hotel. Later gangster Per Lansky began the process that transformed the island from a private sanctuary with magnificent homes into a playground for tourists. The wonderful beaches, such as Cabbage Beach on the northern coast, were the focus of the development. The first hotels began to appear in the 1960s when gambling was a lure to the rich and famous. As Paradise Island saw owners Donald Trump and Merv Griffin come and go, it went through a continuing series of developments and re-developments.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:Head west out of Nassau and within a couple of minutes you’ll encounter three very different attractions. There’s no missing the austere gray ramparts of Fort Charlotte, which guards the western approaches to Nassau Harbour. Built by Lord Dunmore in 1787–89, during the Napoleonic Wars, and named after the wife of George III, this is the largest fort in the Bahamas. But not one shot was ever fired from here in anger — the only volleys ever launched were part of ceremonial salutes. Life must have been pretty boring for the soldiers as many had the time to carve their names in the stones along the battlements. Guides escort visitors around the interior of the fort as well as through the dungeons, which, thankfully, saw little torture. In fact Fort Charlotte is well regarded by New Providence residents as a shelter during hurricanes.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:The main settlement on Grand Bahama, Freeport-Lucaya is in fact two separate towns that have now grown together. In theory Freeport was the commercial center and Lucaya the coastal resort. In reality the two towns now mix so successfully it is difficult to tell where the dividing line is. Most of the island’s 40,000 people live here and the towns continue to develop. There are no historical attractions here but Freeport-Lucaya is happy to offer the alternative of unashamed hedonistic pleasure and relaxation.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:Not surprisingly for a duty-free island, shopping plays a large part in a trip to Grand Bahama. International Bazaar in Freeport takes you on a shopping trip around the world. Enter the bazaar through the red Japanese Torii or “welcome gate” and you can visit France, Africa, and India, all within a few minutes. Unusual offerings such as rare stamps can be found among the standard duty-free shops that carry the most exclusive names in watches, jewelry, and perfume. Behind the South American area you’ll find the Perfume Factory, where you can create your own personal fragrance. Mix essential oils to balance with your skin and give a name to your exclusive product. You can even record the recipe on computer so that you can re-order the exact fragrance at a later date. The “factory” is set in a pretty 18th-century colonial mansion replica; five-minute tours take visitors into the small commercial production plant, where some of the Factory’s own signature perfumes are made.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:After traveling approximately 10 miles on the main road you’ll come to Lucaya National Park (there’s a small parking lot on your left). The 40-acre (16-hectare) park sits on both sides of the main road and protects a range of Bahamian ecosystems. Inland, trails lead to one of the largest surveyed cave systems in the world, much of which lies underwater. Ben’s Cave, also known as Bats Cave for reasons that will be obvious when you enter, is the most accessible and in fact rather small. It links to the larger caves through subterranean tunnels. The pool in the bottom has layers of fresh water lying on top of salt water. Remains of several Lucayan Indians that were found at the cave entrance are now being studied in Nassau. The caves are also home to a rare species of crustacean, spelonectes Lucayensis, which is said to resemble a swimming centipede. Ben’s Cave is closed during June and July to protect the bats during the breeding season.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:New Plymouth is the largest town on the cay. It really has only one main route, Parliament Street, which is full of trim and brightly painted wooden homes with picket fences. As you walk down the street you’ll hear the sounds of daily activity floating through the open windows, occasionally a radio station with news, or maybe evangelical songs. You can browse in the general stores and souvenir shops or visit one of the small art galleries that sell original works and prints by local artists. On the left as you walk away from the harbor you’ll find the Memorial Sculpture Garden, dedicated to the brave settlers who founded New Plymouth. A little farther along, on the right, the Albert Lowe Museum, in an 18th-century house, is brim full of artifacts and knickknacks, maps, and newspaper articles that tell the story of New Plymouth. Lowe was a sailor and prominent shipbuilder. The house is now owned by Roland Alton Lowe, a descendant of Albert and an acclaimed Bahamian painter; his paintings and prints are sold at the museum. Abaco Gold necklaces, bracelets, and rings — including some with turtle and conch shell motifs — are sold at the Sand Dollar Shoppe on Parliament Street (Tel. 365-4221).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:At Andros Town, known as Fresh Creek to local people, there are a few facilities for visitors and a number of small hotels. One of the most popular Bahamian souvenirs is produced nearby. Androsia batik — brightly colored cotton fabric with tropical fish, turtle, or fruit motifs — is hand-produced at a small factory just outside the capital. You can watch the patterns being pressed in wax onto the white cotton fabric and view the skeins as they’re allowed to dry naturally in the warm Bahamian sun. The finished batik is then used to make clothing and other products in the small factory next door. The products are available in shops all over the Bahamas, but you can save a good deal by buying direct from the factory.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:This tiny patch of land, 63 sq miles in area, is at the center of a momentous turning point in history, for it was here that Christopher Columbus first made landfall in the New World, on 12 October 1492. One can only imagine the relief of his crew, and perhaps Columbus’s own sense of satisfaction that his theories had proved to be correct (though not entirely, since he assumed he had found the Indian subcontinent).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bahamas-WhereToGo.txt:The city’s first language is in fact Spanish; more than one-third of the inhabitants are Hispanic, many of whom live in Little Havana, west of downtown. Though many Cubans have now moved on to wealthier neighborhoods this city-within-a-city full of small shops, cafés, and restaurants still has the flavor of the old life. Watch the men play dominos in Maximo Gomez Park on SW 8th Street — Calle Ocho — and listen to their stories of the old days.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bali-WhereToGo.txt:At the farthest corner of Puputan Square, you’ll find the Bali Museum (Museum Negeri Propinsi Bali). This interesting, but rather antiquated museum of ethnography, history, and art was created by the Dutch in 1910. Three of the four museum buildings (fascinating in themselves) represent different styles of palace architecture. The main building contains historical artifacts, ranging from a 2,200-year-old stone sarcophagus to photographs of the 1906 puputan; upstairs is a collection of day-to-day and household items. The First Pavilion, designed in the Singaraja style, displays antique Balinese textiles; the Second Pavilion, in the 18th century Karangasaem style, houses religious and ceremonial objects; the Third Pavilion, designed in the style of the Tabanan Regency, displays artifacts used in music and dance, including a collection of masks, puppets, and costumes. The museum is not strong on catalogues or labels; enjoy the displays for their own intrinsic beauty.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bali-WhereToGo.txt:Not to be confused with the place Gunung Kawi, the temple of Pura Gunung Kawi is some way away in the village of Sebatu, and often many visitors asking for directions have been sent there by mistake. In fact, it is worth the trip, partly for the sights and scenery en route. From Tampaksiring the road opposite the turning to Tirta Empul twists through villages that specialize in the mass production of woodcarvings. You’ll see rows of identical ducks alongside armies of chess pieces and perhaps some original new design of statue that hasn’t yet hit any of the shops. Two successive right turns, signposted, lead to Sebatu and Pura Gunung Kawi, a brightly painted temple with sacred springs feeding water to ponds and bathing pools.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bali-WhereToGo.txt:In contrast to the softer south, the mountain slopes here reach down to the sea, creating rocky shores and small bays. Where there is sand, it’s grey, the result of the weathering of old lava. The rajas once ruled most of Bali from their capitals at Karangasem (now Amlapura) and Klungkung. Approaching from the south, the road passes through busy Gianyar, also a former raja’s capital. The brick palace in the center of town is still the home of his family and is not open to the public. Weaving is the main industry, and a number of small factories and some workshops along the road from Ubud are open for tours. Here you can learn about making ikat (endek in Balinese), using threads that have been tie-dyed in bunches before weaving. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bali-WhereToGo.txt:The dynasty founded by Batu Renggong, the first Dewa Agung, was paramount in Bali for 300 years, first ruling from Gelgel and then moving to Klungkung in 1710. Standing high above the modern town where its broad main streets cross, the Kerta Gosa Pavilion, the Royal Hall of Justice, was built at the time of the move and continued as a courthouse under the Dutch. The ceiling is covered in vivid paintings in a style unique to the region. Although the paintings have frequently been restored and in fact entirely replaced more than once, the work has always been done by artists from the nearby village of Kamasan, and it is likely that the designs resemble the 18th-century originals. Many of the panels relate tales from Balinese mythology, but visitors’ eyes tend to be drawn to the series depicting the dreadful punishments awaiting evildoers in the kingdom of the dead.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Barcelona-WhereToGo.txt:Directly across the Rambla is the venerable Café de l’Opera, a handsome old-world café that’s always bursting with boisterous patrons. It’s a good spot for refreshment before you push on down the next stretch, the Rambla dels Caputxins. This Rambla’s demeanor, like the incline, proceeds downhill after the Liceu, but the street-entertainment factor rises in inverse proportion. You’ll wade your way through jugglers, fire-eaters, tarot-card readers, lottery-ticket sellers, more mimes, mendicants, and many artists rapidly knocking out portraits, caricatures, and chalk masterwork reproductions on the pavement. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Barcelona-WhereToGo.txt:Heading back to Plaça de Sant Jaume, turn right on carrer de la Llibreteria, a small street lined with pastry shops and one of Barcelona’s oldest, tiniest, and coolest coffee shops, El Mesón del Café. A couple of blocks down on the left, on Plaça del Rei, s/n, is the Museu d’Història de la Ciutat (City History Museum). The building is a Gothic mansion that was moved stone by stone to this location. The chief attraction is in the basement, where excavations have uncovered the foundations, including sculptures, walls, a bathing pool, and cemeteries filled with the Romans and Visigoths who once inhabited the city. On upper floors are maps of the Catalan empire, the original plans for the 19th century expansion of the city that created the Eixample district, and other historical documents and artifacts. Visitors can also see a 28-minute “virtual history” multimedia film about Barcino-Barcelona.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Barcelona-WhereToGo.txt:Just beyond, flanking the cathedral, is the Museu Frederic Marès. Marès, a 20th-century sculptor of civic statues, was a compulsive collector who bequeathed to Barcelona an unusually idiosyncratic collection of art and, well, miscellany. The lower floors of the museum are stocked with Iberian votive figurines, Limoges enamel boxes, and religious sculptures from the 12th to 19th centuries. You’ll also find Portuguese carved ox yokes, a roomful of iron keys, old sewing machines, canes, wind-up toys — in short an endless catalogue of art and artifacts. There is even the suitcase, covered with travel stickers, which Marés used to cart home his loot.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Barcelona-WhereToGo.txt:Casa Amatller (1900), just up the block at Number 41, was built for a chocolate manufacturer. Puig i Cadafalch drew inspiration from Flanders for the stepped roof covered in glazed tiles. The Institut Amatller d’Art Hispànic on the top floor contains documents on Hispanic art furniture by the architect and a splendid collection of glass, but is not open to the public except by special permission. If you are discreet, though, you can usually take a peek into the lobby to see the antique elevator and wonderful staircase.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Beijing-WhereToGo.txt:Completed by the Emperor Yongle in 1420, the Forbidden City (Zijin Cheng) in the center of Beijing was the home to 24 consecutive rulers of China during the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1644–1911) dynasties. The 9-m (30-ft) walls enclose 74 hectares (183 acres) of magnificent halls, palaces, courtyards, and imperial gardens, and the rooms and chambers number nearly 10,000. The Chinese call the Forbidden City the Palace Museum (Gu Gong), and it is indeed a museum of imperial architecture, artifacts, and private collections of the emperors.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Beijing-WhereToGo.txt:The Museum of Chinese History (Zhongguo Lishi Bowuguan), to the south, is of more general interest. It ranks among China’s top museums and has the nation’s largest holdings. Its 300,000 priceless artifacts, displayed on two levels, are arranged chronologically from the Stone Age through the final dynasty, the Qing. Although bereft of up-to-date display cases and featuring explanations written in Chinese only, this museum provides the most exhaustive overview of Chinese civilization — illustrated with national treasures — of any gallery in China.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Beijing-WhereToGo.txt:Extensively renovated and enlarged in 1998, the White Pagoda Temple (Bai Ta Si) is renowned for its Tibetan-style pagoda (usually called a dagoba or stupa). The white pagoda at this temple is larger than the more famous one in Beihai Park. In fact, it is the largest of its type in China, built in 1279 during the reign of Kublai Khan.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Beijing-WhereToGo.txt:The main gate of the White Pagoda Temple (located on the north side of Fuchingmennei Dajie), the first courtyard, and the museum are new. The museum houses many Buddhist artifacts and statues discovered on the temple grounds, as well as a sutra copied out by Emperor Qianlong. This rare manuscript, unearthed in 1978, was composed in the emperor’s own hand in 1753. Beyond the museum to the north are three finely restored prayer halls. The Hall of the Great Enlightened Ones is stuffed with thousands of little Buddhas. The white pagoda itself, rising 51 m (167 ft), is last and, like most dagobas, remains sealed, its holy treasures and relics somewhere beneath or inside the imposing structure.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Beijing-WhereToGo.txt:The cave on Dragon Bone Hill, where Peking Man lived 690,000 years ago, showed evidence of a community numbering up to 40 individuals. Nearby caves contained fossils and artifacts from more-recent Stone Age settlements (20,000 to 50,000 years ago). These caves may now be visited, their treasures housed in the nearby Peking Man Museum. Here there are molds of the missing skulls, an array of stone tools, the bones of prehistoric beasts, some human fossils, and a modern statue of Peking Man himself.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Berlin-WhatToDo.txt:One surprise sport you may not have expected to practice in Berlin is hang-gliding, but it is, in fact, possible to throw yourself off the Teufelsberg, where you can also do a little skiing and sledding in winter (see page 64). However, you don’t have to go in search of snow to ski; the Glacier ski center in Pankow has the longest indoor ski course in the world.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Berlin-WhatToDo.txt:Look for modern Rosenthal and the local Königliche Porzellan Manufaktur (KPM), which was launched by Frederick the Great in the 18th century. The KPM shop on the factory premises at Wegely Straße 1 sells reduced price seconds, and there is also a shop at Kurfürstendamm 26a. Other celebrated manufacturers represented in Berlin, particularly in the antiques shops, are Meissen, Nymphenburg of Munich, and Frankenthal.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Berlin-WhereToGo.txt:Berlin’s museum of primeval and early history houses an extensive collection of artifacts from the Stone Age to the Bronze Age. The exhibits and meticulously reconstructed dioramas are clearly described in English, French, and German.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Berlin-WhereToGo.txt:Daniel Libeskind’s striking design was the winner of a competition to find a suitable design for an annex to the Berlin Museum. However, it was much larger than the rules of the competition specified, and a decision was taken to build it as a separate museum. Even before the exhibits were introduced, people flocked to see the empty, zinc-faced building, its sharp angles representing the jagged course of German Jewish history, in particular the tragedy of the Holocaust. Jewish life and culture are depicted through art and artifacts. The full exhibition opens in September 2001.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Berlin-WhereToGo.txt:The Islamic Museum in the Pergamon’s south wing exhibits the grand façade of the 8th-century Palace of Mshatta (from what is now modern Jordan). It is embellished with intricately incised or perforated animal and plant motifs. In fact, a German art historian rescued this tour de force of early Islamic decoration at the turn of the century by persuading the Sultan of Turkey not to use it as building material for a railway link to Mecca. He made quite a save! Among the other precious exhibits you will find some exquisite Indian Mogul miniatures. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhatToDo.txt:Bermuda is not a duty-free island. In fact, since there is no income tax for the local population, charging duty on imported goods is one way for the government to raise funds. Duty varies on the type of goods but is always included in the price. However, there is no sales tax at all in Bermuda, so here is your opportunity to save a little.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhatToDo.txt:In many ways, Bermuda is still a vendor of fine British goods, although the range of merchandise is definitely expanding. Bermudian traders have always bought directly from the manufacturers rather than through middlemen, which has traditionally resulted in a cheaper price than you would find at home. However, government-imposed import duty means that prices might not be as advantageous as they once were. The key to tax-free shopping in Bermuda today is quality, not price.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhereToGo.txt:Just behind the Post Office is a building that houses the Bermuda National Library and the Historical Society Museum, prime collections devoted to important historical documents and artifacts from the island. The public rooms are small but full of Bermudian treasures. Silver, china, coins, and furniture have been gathered together, including rare and valuable “hog” money as well as some of the Confederate notes that were used to pay for goods before the Civil War. Many Bermudian businessmen and sailors were paid in money that became worthless after the Unionists won the war.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhereToGo.txt:Only a short walk west from the Inn, you will find the Bermuda Perfumery and Gardens. This small family business was established in 1929 by Madeleine and Herbert Scott in a garden shed. They moved to their present site in 1939 and proceeded to plant the acres of flowers that serve as raw materials to produce their small range of signature fragrances. The business has now been passed on to their son. You can take a free tour of the “factory,” housed in a 200-year-old farmhouse, where you can watch the process of perfume production, including the techniques for collecting the ripe blooms. Then take your time and wander among the fragrant gardens with their swathes of jasmine, frangipani, and passion flower,their scents heavy in the warm air. You can also browse in the gift shop, which sells perfumes produced here as well as other souvenirs. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhereToGo.txt:The main road leads east along the coast to John Smith’s Bay, a small but much-photographed beach for swimming and snorkeling. Just beyond the bay, there is a left turn leading to Devil’s Hole Aquarium, at the very southern tip of Harrington Sound. One of the oldest tourist attractions in Bermuda, it has been welcoming visitors since 1834. The hole is in fact a collapsed cave, producing a natural seawater aquarium that has become home to a number of voracious fish, sharks, and turtles waiting at the surface to be fed. The fish (usually large tarpon) seem to enjoy the regular food service offered by visitors. Incidentally, the name “Devil’s Hole” derives from the sound of the seawater entering and leaving the hole, rather than from the fearsome reputation of some of its inhabitants.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-WhereToGo.txt:On your way up Harrington Sound Road, you will come to Lemington Caves, a series of caves smaller than Crystal Caves but equally spectacular. Watch also for Walsingham Lane and a sign to Tom Moore’s Tavern, named after the Irish poet who spent some time on Bermuda. The tavern (which is in fact a restaurant with French and local cuisine) is open only in the evening. In the daytime you can visit Idwal Hughes Nature Reserve, also along Walsingham Lane — a pristine area of natural habitat. Collapsed limestone caves and tidal seawater mangrove swamps provide a perfect home for herons, tropical frogs, and many species of fish.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Bermuda-history.txt:Between the two world wars, tourism became a prime economic factor, and luxury cruise liners began regular runs between New York and Bermuda during the 1920s. Resort hotels were built to attract Americans escaping the northern winter (and the Prohibition laws against alcoholic beverages).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:Continue up Washington Street, into the heart of the Downtown shopping area (see page 80). Here the Freedom Trail doubles back on itself to the Old State House (1713), a red-brick building with a wedding cake bell tower. The surrounding buildings dwarf it. It was the British Government’s headquarters in Boston and also served as the merchants’ exchange and after the revolution as the state capitol. Here James Otis argued against the Writs of Assistance; the Declaration of Independence was read from the balcony on 18 July, 1776. The gold lion and silver unicorn above, symbols of the British crown, are replicas of originals that were destroyed that same day. Inside, displays and historical artifacts relate Boston’s Revolutionary history. Other exhibits concentrate on later events, like the first attempt to integrate the schools in 1848.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:Humpbacks are most commonly spotted, but you might also spy the larger fin whales (which measure up to 80-ft or 24-m in length — the second biggest species after blue whales) and swift, 30-ft (9-m) -long minkes. You’re almost certain to glimpse a whale. In fact, on a good day you may see as many as forty. (You are more likely to see greater numbers if the weather is poor; take seasickness medicine before boarding.)
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:South Boston, referred to as Southie, is in fact (rather confusingly) situated east of Downtown. Home to such establishments as Flanagan’s Supermarket and the Shannon Tavern on its main thoroughfare of East Broadway, it’s thoroughly and proudly Irish. In fact, it was the flashpoint for protests and riots during the busing controversy in the 1970s. Follow the main street past its old wooden and brick houses down to Fort Independence, which stands at the very mouth of Boston Inner Harbor. The fort is rarely open, but join the locals who settle down in the surrounding park with deck chairs and binoculars to watch the nautical and aeronautical activity.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:From Harvard Square enter the gates into Harvard Yard, the oldest part of the university. Here is Hollis Hall attended by Emerson and Thoreau, Massachusetts Hall attended by John and Samuel Adams, H. H. Richardson’s Sever Hall, and Charles Bulfinch’s Stoughton and University Halls. Note the statue of John Harvard, labeled as the founder and dated 1638. It’s called the statue of the Three Lies because it isn’t John Harvard, but only a student model; he wasn’t the founder, only the first benefactor, who donated his 400-book library; and the date is wrong (it should be 1636). So much for Harvard’s motto: Veritas, the Latin for “Truth.”
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:Opposite the Sackler the monumental Memorial Hall was in fact built to commemorate former students who died on the Union side in the Civil War. If it’s open, peek inside the lovely wooden Sanders Theater and the vast reception hall.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:The first town Sandwich, is the Cape’s oldest community. It has a couple of sites worth visiting — the Sandwich Glass Museum and the Heritage Plantation. The first displays the brilliantly colored glass that was manufactured here in the 19th century, the second is an estate owned by Charles Dexter where you can see a dazzling display of antique cars, bird carvings by Elmer Crowell, a beautifully restored carousel, and more. The gardens alone are worth visiting, especially in spring when the rhododendrons bloom.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Boston-WhereToGo.txt:Gloucester (38 miles/61 km from Boston) is a gritty salty town, the country’s oldest fishing port and also the busiest on the Massachusetts coast. Rows of gulls perch on the ridges of the factory roofs that line the wooden quays and jetties, while a steady stream of fishing craft and whale-watch cruisers weigh and drop anchor. It’s also home to one of the most engaging small museums anywhere, the Cape Ann Historical Association. It shows the largest collection of paintings by native of Gloucester Fitz Hugh Lane (1804–1865) along with works by other artists who visited Cape Ann — Winslow Homer, Milton Avery, and others. It also has exhibits on the Gloucester fishing industry and the area’s granite quarrying industry.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Budapest-WhatToDo.txt:The former “Intourist” shops which only took HUFand had a virtual monopoly on quality souvenirs have been consigned to the same scrap heap as the statues of Stalin. You can now buy most Western goods in the city’s department stores, at any number of specialist shops, and on market stalls; in fact, at all the usual retail outlets. Prices are nearly always ﬁxed.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Budapest-WhatToDo.txt:Ceramics. The two leading brands are Herend, which is made in the town of the same name near Lake Balaton, and Zsolnay, made in the south of Hungary. The Herend factory has been turning out porcelain for the tables of the nobility since 1826; members of the British royal family from Queen Victoria to Charles and Diana have been customers. As everything is still hand-ﬁnished, prices are understandably high. You don’t need to travel all the way to Herend to buy Herend ceramics, as there is a specialist shop on József Nádor tér (behind the Gerbeaud café on Vörösmarty tér).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Budapest-WhereoGo.txt:Behind the church is the most photographed monument in Budapest, the intriguingly-named Halászbástya (Fishermen’s Bastion). Built onto the castle walls, at ﬁrst glance this picture-book array of turrets, terraces, and arches could easily pass for authentic medieval fortiﬁcations, but they are in fact too good to be true, constructed around the turn of this century as pure ornamentation. The name refers to the ﬁshermen who defended the ramparts here in the 18th century. Today it is a busy place, with coachloads of tourists peering through the arches for one of the city’s finest views — across the Danube and over to the Houses of Parliament. At the handsome equestrian statue of the canonized King Istvánn, old ladies trade Transylvanian tablecloths, zithers sing sweetly, and barrel-organs grind while classical buskers ﬁll the air with Bartók and Liszt.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-History.txt:As far as California was concerned, the Mexican takeover was practically bloodless. In fact, California’s 26 years of rather loose Mexican administration (1822–1848) were characterized by a series of bloodless revolutions. The governorship at Monterey changed hands 11 times in a period of five years, not counting three governors whom Mexico City had dared to impose and whose authority was then completely ignored. There was some half-hearted fighting between northerners and southerners for control of the property and lands left by the Spanish missionaries, half of which was meant to be returned to the Native Americans but never was.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-History.txt:There was also another fortune to be made — this time from the service industries — and San Francisco, home of the banks and manufacturers of mining equipment, began to grow into a metropolis. All kinds of con-men and hustlers flocked in to part the diggers from their gold dust. One of the more enduring spin-offs of the Gold Rush was the hard-wearing work trousers sold by the Bavarian immigrant and entrepreneur, Levi Strauss. Originally made from tent canvas, and later from the twill-weave cotton known as denim, Levi’s jeans are now world famous.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-History.txt:Then came World War II, bringing with it an enormous boom for the state’s beleaguered economy, with the United States federal government spending $35 billion in California. Overnight, ships and planes became the state’s most important products. Manufacturers such as Douglas, Lockheed, and Northrop were all located in the Los Angeles area.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-WhereToGo.txt:Many Californians would like to divide their state into two new states, Northern and Southern California — corresponding to what they believe to be two distinct frames of mind as represented by San Francisco and Los Angeles. In fact you will find a little bit of both — San Francisco’s sophistication and Los Angeles’ sunny craziness — all over the place.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-WhereToGo.txt:The other main cable car route, the Powell-Mason line, terminates at one of San Francisco’s — and California’s — most popular sights, Fisherman’s Wharf. Geared more today toward tourists than fishing, the area offers a dozen or more seafood restaurants, as well as garish knick-knack shops and sweatshirt emporiums. Seafood stands line the wharfside — though the fish is very likely to be imported — and there are two shopping centers, Ghirardelli Square, a converted red-brick former chocolate factory (there are good free concerts summer weekends), and The Cannery, once a fruit-processing plant. The ferry to Alcatraz leaves from Pier 41 at the east end of the wharf. Pier 39 consists of two levels of open-air shopping and snacking, an arcade, and of course the famous sea lions who lounge and argue on platforms all day long to the delight of the crowds. Just follow the barking noises.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-WhereToGo.txt:The actual city of Hollywood has not lived up to the idea of Hollywood for quite some time. In fact, it’s a somewhat seedy area still surviving on its outdated reputation. Tourists continue to flock to landmarks made famous over the years, but don’t make the trek expecting to see anyone associated with the film business. The studios themselves have long since moved over the hills to set up shop in North Hollywood and Burbank, and everyone else is busy cutting deals over in Beverly Hills.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/California-WhereToGo.txt:Long Beach — which is 7 miles (11 km) long, in fact — is the last resting place of one of the world’s biggest ever cruise ships, the Queen Mary, a nostalgic reminder of the grand era of luxury ocean liners. Since being moored here in 1967, the Queen Mary’s staterooms have been turned into a hotel, and her dining rooms into a restaurant; the rest of the ship is open to the public with self-guided tours (admission is free). Launched on the River Clyde in Scotland in 1936 for the Cunard line, the Queen Mary is 1,019 ft (310 m) long, displaces 81,237 tons, and carried a complement of 1,174 officers and crew, with accommodation for 1,959 passengers. Firework displays are staged over her on Friday and Saturday nights during summer.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:This takes some of the wind out of the sails of John Cabot, the Venetian navigator who claimed Canada’s eastern seaboard for England’s Henry VII in 1497. Locals fight over whether it was Nova Scotia or Newfoundland he actually discovered. Cabot himself mistook it for the northeast coast of Asia. In fact, Breton, Basque, and Portuguese fishermen had been here long before him but kept to themselves the secret of the coastal waters’ teeming cod fisheries. Initially, the English were attracted to Canada only by the fish, preferring to concentrate their colonizing activities farther down the American coast.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:With no written culture to document it, the pre-European history of the Inuit and other early peoples is a vague archaeological patchwork of bones, stones, and artifacts. Their brief encounters with Atlantic fishermen left little impact, but the advent of French and later British colonizers brought, in exchange for their beaver pelts, copper kettles and guns, blankets and brandy, Christianity, measles, and smallpox.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:But the war was good for the economy, supporting arms manufacture, the railways, and especially agriculture’s huge wheat exports. Trade union membership expanded from 166,000 in 1914 to 378,000 in 1919, being emphatically more radical in the west, where workers chose to assert their new organizational strength by calling for a proletarian revolution. In Vancouver and Calgary, they cheered the Bolshevik victory in Russia. The government blamed the 1919 general strike in Winnipeg on “enemy aliens,” but the leaders were in fact British immigrants. In classic Canadian style, the campaign for a united national union movement fell victim to narrow regional interests: those of Ontario’s tiny Communist Party and the Catholic Union in Québec.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:At the same time, the country came more and more into the American economic and cultural orbit. The boom years of the 1920s saw the growth of a “branch-plant economy;” with American automobile, rubber, chemical, and clothing factories springing up around the Great Lakes at Hamilton, Oshawa, Windsor, and Montréal. The boom in American popular culture inundated Canada with radio, movies, and mass-market magazines. Québec, in particular, tried to resist the invasion, even going so far as to ban adolescents from cinemas. Apart from the Group of Seven, a spirited band of Ontario painters who were seeking a distinctive “national” style, most Canadian-born artists — actors, musicians, and writers — felt obliged to seek fame and fortune in New York, London, or Paris.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:In 1940, Mackenzie King and Franklin D. Roosevelt signed a joint American-Canadian defense pact, and a year later integrated their countries’ economies for the duration of the war. War was again good for business. Out of a population of 11,500,000, more than a million were directly working in war-allied industries, most of them in brand-new factories. Over 730,000 men and women served in the armed forces, which suffered 43,000 losses. In 1942, without adequate Allied naval and air support, the high-risk amphibious raid of 5,000 Canadian troops on Dieppe proved disastrous (almost 1,000 killed, 2,000 captured). With more careful Allied planning a year later, Canadians played a distinguished role in the Sicily landings and Italy campaign, as well as the D-Day invasion of Normandy in 1944.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:Economically, the country was closer than ever to the United States. The consumer boom accentuated dependency on America’s Canada-based branch-plant manufacturers of cars, radios, TVs, and refrigerators. The United States was also Canada’s main customer for raw materials and energy in what was a veritable explosion of industrial achievement. North Manitoba nickel and Labrador iron were replacing depleted resources south of the border; huge oil strikes were made near Edmonton, Alberta, in 1947; a uranium reactor started up in Ontario in 1952; and hydro-electric plants mushroomed all across the country. The St. Lawrence Seaway was opened in 1959. Six years later, drivers could cross the entire continent on the Trans-Canada Highway.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:In fact, quite apart from the more tangible facets of Indian life that the Dene Nation is trying to preserve — language, customs, hunting and fishing grounds —the traditional values are what remain vitally important. In the past, native peoples moved around the Subarctic in small bands, with leaders not institutionalized in a sacred or hereditary role, but chosen very pragmatically for specific hunting skills or on-the-spot organizing abilities. A tough environment demanded tough qualities of interdependence and industriousness, sorely tried by contact with Europeans. The fur trade put an end to their semi-nomadic existence as they settled around the trading posts and became fiercely competitive with one another. A collapse of fur prices after World War II, coinciding with a rise in prices for consumer goods, left them dependent on federal welfare.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-History.txt:Our popular image of the North American Indian is conditioned by Hollywood’s stereotype — feather headdress, necklace of scalps, and whooping war dances around the campfire — which in fact derived from the prairie tribes, or Plains Indians, as they are known to American anthropologists. The Blackfoot of Alberta are a classic example. Their name, says the myth, was bestowed on them when an ancestor, on his way to meet another tribe, walked through land burned by prairie fire and blackened his moccasins.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:This choice piece of real estate between the Great Lakes and Hudson Bay is the country’s dominant province — too dominant for the liking of many of the others. With 10 million people clustered almost entirely along the southern border, Ontario is the most populous province and the wealthiest, generating close to 40 percent of the gross national product from manufacturing, construction, minerals, forestry, and agriculture. The province has grown in vitality with the influx of Italian, German, Portuguese, Caribbean, Indian, and Pakistani immigrants, reducing the once overwhelming “British” majority to barely 50 percent. If Ontarians are known for their bumptious spirit, they certainly have something to be bumptious about in their province’s burgeoning towns and the riches of its farmlands, forests, and lakes.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:After years of neglect, when it served only the lake’s loading docks, railway depots, and factories, the waterfront has become a major attraction for Torontonians at play.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Harbourfront is a bright new neighborhood reclaimed from a swampy wasteland, at the foot of the CN Tower. Rundown warehouses and factories have been transformed into art galleries, bars, restaurants, boutiques, a sailing school, playgrounds in the park, and, more recently, chic apartments. Young upwardly mobile peddlers of old and new-old china and other bric-a-brac on Queen’s Quay West call their flea market the Harbourfront Antique Market. The Canadian Railway Museum at Spadina Pier exhibits some of the earliest engines to cross the continent. For a thorough view of the port facilities, take the harbor boat tour organized by the Toronto Harbor Commission.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:If patriots make a reverent pilgrimage to Canada’s Sports Hall of Fame (just off Lakeshore Boulevard West at Exhibition Place) to salute heroic athletes of the past, the separate Hockey Hall of Fame provides a tonic lesson for American visitors to recall, among the trophies, masks, skates, and hockey sticks, the fact that nearly all their ice hockey heroes are Canadian-born. With the many splits between Anglo- and French-Canadians, Protestants and Catholics, ice hockey is the closest thing the country has to a state religion.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Mere statistics — an average of 2,830 cubic m (100,000 cubic ft) of water per second generating 4 million kilowatts of energy — convey nothing of the falls’ immensity, but a close-up view is unforgettable. The Niagara River divides in fact into two major cascades around Goat Island: to the east, American Falls (61 m/184 ft high with a crestline of 350 m/1,076 ft) and to the west, the more dramatic Canadian Horseshoe Falls (58 m/177 ft high with a curving crestline of 670 m/2,214 ft), and a smaller cascade off to the side, known as Bridal Veil.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:The simple little Church of St. Joseph contains the tombs of the martyred missionaries. A museum outside the stockade depicts the life of the 17th-century French-Canadians, including the artifacts and birchbark canoes of the fur traders.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Reached most easily from Kingston, this archipelago of, in fact, 1,700 islands are strung out along the St. Lawrence River for nearly 80 km (48 miles). You can go fishing, sailing, or lie back and enjoy a luxury three-day cruise around the islands aboard the Empress steamboat.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Diagonally opposite the Hôtel de Ville on rue Notre-Dame, the Château Ramezay was home of the French governor Claude de Ramezay from 1705 to 1724. It passed successively into the hands of the French West Indies Trading Company (to store its spices), the British, and, during their brief occupation of the city in 1775, the American generals Richard Montgomery and Benedict Arnold. Benjamin Franklin stayed here during his fruitless attempt to win Québec over to the American cause. After years of neglect, the château has been restored and transformed into a museum showing a more comfortable side of frontier life in New France: elegant 18th-century furnishings, a grand colonial kitchen in the basement, and the nice added touch of magnificent carved mahogany paneling imported from the old trading company’s French offices. Iroquois clothes and artifacts give a hint of life outside the stockade.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Since 1772, the church of Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours, 400 rue Saint-Paul Est, has stood on the site of a chapel that was built for the colony’s first schoolteacher, Marguerite Bourgeois, but destroyed by fire. She and three young woman companions brought a civilizing influence to the harshness of the beleaguered settlement. Acting as both teachers and nurses, they also took charge of marriageable girls known as the filles du Roi, the “King’s daughters.” The filles du Roi were in fact daughters of peasants and poor artisans, shipped over from France as wives for bachelor farmers and fur traders. In the 19th century, Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours became the “Sailors’ Chapel,” to which survivors of shipwrecks brought model ships they had carved as offerings of thanksgiving. The models still hang from the ceiling, lit up now by tiny electric bulbs. Notice how the trompe l’oeil painting on the low arched ceiling aspires to turn the little church into a lofty Gothic cathedral. Climb the church tower for a good view of Vieux Montréal and the harbor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Back down by the river, Place d’Youville, named after a lady who established here the charitable order of the Grey Nuns, offers a quieter, more romantic end to your tour of Vieux Montréal. The Youville Stables (Ecuries d’Youville) are an enchanting collection of early 19th-century grey-stone gabled buildings now containing restaurants and offices looking out onto a peaceful garden. The U-shaped courtyard makes a lovely setting for open-air plays and recitals in the summer. The “stables” were in fact nothing more romantic than a warehouse, but they did for a time serve as a garage for horse-carriages. Next to the stables is an old red-brick fire station transformed into the Montréal History Center (Centre d’histoire de Montréal), presenting an audiovisual documentary history of the city.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:On the north side of Mount Royal, beyond the Chemin de la Côte-Ste-Catherine, the handsome villas of Outremont make up the favored neighborhood of the French-Canadian bourgeoisie, in fact an independent township situated within Montréal’s city borders. Originally an Anglo stronghold, part of it is still known even among French speakers as Upper-Outremont, family home of that splendidly ambiguous French-Canadian, prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. The “lower” part of this independent township has a breezy street-life, especially among the sidewalk cafés on rue Bernard.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:After years of hiding the river behind a bleak expanse of warehouses, factories, and railway tracks, Montréal has opened up its waterfront, more recently with the music festivals and flea market of the Vieux Port, but largely at the earlier instigation of that much maligned Mayor Drapeau.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:The Museum of Contemporary Art (Musée d’Art Contemporain), 185 rue Ste-Catherine, houses a stunning collection of works by Canadian and international artists. The small but tastefully designed McCord Museum (690 Sherbrooke Street West) provides some fascinating insights into Canadian life — Inuit and Indian as well as the world of the fur trader and other pioneers of the 18th and 19th centuries. Dominated by a totem pole from British Columbia, the exhibits include costumes, artifacts, paintings, drawings, and magnificent old photographs from the William Notman archives (said to contain 45,000 prints and negatives).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:West of the Citadel, on Summer Street, the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History is devoted to the province’s human and natural history. It exhibits Indian clothing, tools, and artifacts, with local Micmac Indians demonstrating their use, and colonial ceramics, glassware, and pinewood furniture (often artfully painted to imitate more expensive mahogany or oak). Regional wildlife on display ranges from dinosaurs to moose, bear, coyotes, and bald eagles. The Halifax Public Gardens, south of the museum, makes a pleasant stroll around the duck pond and among such exquisite Asian trees as the Chinese gingko and white-flowered dove tree, the Japanese lilac and larch, and a corkscrew birch. Try to be here for an utterly Victorian open-air band concert.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Starting in Confederation Plaza, visit Province House, the sober grey sandstone Georgian building in which the “Fathers of the Confederation” met in 1864. Originally a courthouse, it is now the seat of the provincial legislature. Confederation Chamber has been preserved with the names of the august delegates, a very dignified setting for an affair that was in fact characterized by somewhat extravagant wining and dining.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Newfoundland Museum, on Duckworth Street, recounts the human history of the island, displaying the dwellings and artifacts of the Inuit and native peoples, including the now-extinct Beothuk, and the costume, furniture, and implements of the first European fishermen. Another section of the museum, in the shopping center of the Murray Premises down on Harbour Drive, is devoted to the province’s colorful seafaring history.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:The great boon of British Columbia, at least in the southwest corner where three-quarters of the population is clustered, is its gentle, relatively dry summers and mild (but rainy) winters. B.C.’s kind weather has been a major factor in attracting new blood in the westward expansion from Ontario, Québec, and the Maritimes.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Inside the museum, alongside the artifacts of other Pacific civilizations, the rich culture of the coastal tribes — Haida, Kwakiutl, Salish, Tlingit, and Tsimshian — is beautifully displayed and illuminated in a space where the roof-glass seems to open the halls to the heavens. Compare the sturdy cedarwood canoes, built to negotiate the Pacific’s coastal waters, with the lighter birchbark craft used by Eastern Woodlands Indians for the rivers of Ontario and Québec.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:The area where English Bay narrows into False Creek epitomizes Vancouver’s taste for the good life. The once miserable wasteland of run-down warehouses, lumber-mills, factories, and railyards has been reclaimed not only for the upbeat commercial enterprises that are now a familiar feature of any Canadian city with a waterfront, but also as a handsome residential neighborhood. Under the Granville Bridge, Granville Island (really a triangular peninsula of landfill) is a cheerful collection of markets, cafés, galleries, boutiques, and theaters. Children love it not just for the toys in the Kids Only Market but also for the water playground around the fire hydrants and tons of rubber tires.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Highway 4 follows the lake shore to Cathedral Grove, a formidable stand of Douglas firs in MacMillan Provincial Park, donated to the public by a paper manufacturer as a gesture for government permission to exploit less accessible parts of the forest. Many of the firs, up to 76 m (230 ft) high, are more than 300 years old, the most ancient dating back to the 12th century. Excellent explanatory panels trace the growth of these majestic trees. Off the beaten track, you’ll steep yourself in the atmosphere of a truly primeval forest.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:The stark drama of the mountain landscapes derives from the fact that, in geological terms, the Rockies were born “yesterday” and have not had the time to settle into more stable forms. Waves of sedimentary rock lifted by vast thrust faults less than 60 million years ago have created a variety of striking silhouettes: the battlements of a medieval fortress, sawteeth, or single pyramids like the Swiss Matterhorn. The highest peak in the Canadian Rockies is Mount Robson, 4,320 m (12,972 ft), just inside B.C.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Canada-WhereToGo.txt:Spend a more sober moment in the fascinating Glenbow Museum (130 Ninth Avenue S.E.). Beautifully arranged exhibits of furniture, costumes, utensils, and weapons give a vivid picture of Alberta life, from the pioneers’ log-cabin homesteads to the modern artifacts of oil-drillers, railway-builders, and miners. One evocative exhibit of the Great Depression of the 1930s is a farm girl’s party dress bejeweled with scores of safety pins arranged in patterns. The life of Ojibwa and Cree Indians is displayed in tepees, magnificent buffalo robes, and beaded buckskin, dance masks, and snowshoes.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CanaryIslands-WhatToDo.txt:Many shops in the main resorts stock cameras, calculators, watches, perfume, jewelry, leather goods, spirits, and tobacco — in fact, all the things that you can buy in airport duty-free shops. Aside from spirits and local tobacco, however, there are few real bargains.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CanaryIslands-WhereToGo.txt:La Gomera is, indeed, a dramatic and rugged mountainous island. It has a coastline that is dominated by dramatic cliffs — there are very few beaches, and the interior is full of vertiginous, mostly verdant, valleys that are often lined with narrow fields stepped into the sides of the mountains. For extra effect these valleys are more often than not covered by a ceiling of cloud, whisked in by the trade winds, which seem to perpetually hang over the island. In the center, there is the unusually dense growth of trees and fauna in what is the Parque Nacional Garajonay (open Tuesday–Sunday 9:30am–4:30pm). Less than 20 km (121⁄2 miles) from north to south, this amazing island has been declared a Property of Humanity by UNESCO. In fact, a third of the island, 12,450 hectares (30,774 acres) has been designated into seventeen protected areas. Such terrain, though, makes for difficulty in getting around, and even the Romans, had they ventured this way, would have found their legendary ability to build straight roads put to an impossible test. In fact, almost nowhere on the island will you find a straight stretch of road, everywhere you go the roads twist and turn continually, often turning back on themselves in hairpin bends. Making driving even more complicated is the fact that the roads, although improving, are often of poor quality, and the directional signs leave much to be desired.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CanaryIslands-WhereToGo.txt:Gran Canaria is known, not without reason, as the “continent in miniature.” The coastline ranges from awe-inspiring cliffs to golden dunes. Inland you can choose between stark mountains and tranquil valleys; in fact, there are 32 protected areas that cover 42.7% of the island’s surface.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CanaryIslands-WhereToGo.txt:Drive on and turn left at the small roundabout to the Montañas del Fuego. Your introduction to the inner sanctum of the mountains leaves no doubt that at least one of these volcanoes (in fact the very one that you are standing on!) is not dead, just sleeping. In fact, less than 10 m (32 ft) under the surface the temperature reaches as much as 600º C (1,112ºF), and at the surface level it can, at certain places, get to 120º C (248ºF). A guide demonstrates this by pouring water down a tube into the earth, then beating a hasty retreat. Seconds later a geyser erupts, startling the diners in the adjacent restaurant.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CanaryIslands-WhereToGo.txt:Betancuria, by far the most attractive and visited inland town on the island, is an oasis of greenery on this barren island. Although the riverbed here is almost perpetually dry, the town is fortunate to have a high water table. Because of its theoretical invulnerability at the heart of the island, it was made Fuerteventura’s first capital in the early 15th century. However, in 1539 somehow the ravaging Berber pirates overcame the mountains (which still provide a difficult drive today), and destroyed the original cathedral. The present 17th-century church, Iglesia de Santa María is a splendid building and hosts many interesting treasures. Look at the unusual wooden beams between the flagstones on the floor, the wooden altar and choir, and the decorated pulpit. Adjacent to the museum is a leather factory-cum-shoe-shop, set in an atmospheric old building. Wander round this lovely little town and admire the view from across the bridge, where there is an unpretentious restaurant/bar and a gift shop. Just south of Betancuria is the neat and pretty village of Pájara, but a stop at Antigua, on the other side of the mountains is in order. This is reached either by continuing on the loop past Tuineje, or backtracking from Betancuria and taking the FV-416 across the mountains. In either event, once in Antigua — the island’s capital from 1834–1835 — you can’t miss the traditional old windmill found just to the north of town, and this is your destination. Actually, the Centro de Artesania “Molino de Antigua” (Windmill Crafts Center) is much more than just that, and has something for almost everyone’s tastes. Interesting crafts and a visit inside the windmill certainly, but also ethnographic and archaeological exhibitions, modern art, an audiovisual room, rooftop view- points and an intriguing cactus garden, not to mention a nice restaurant.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-History.txt:Though their antecedents are still shadowy, they were much influenced by the Olmec. They developed and refined the Olmec calendar and counting system, and improved their building practices. The whole Yucatán peninsula witnessed the flowering of classic Mayan civilization and a society of great sophistication; with its magnificent pyramids, temples, and palaces decorated with wall paintings and carved low-reliefs, a written language of hieroglyphics, and complicated medical procedures to heal the injured or the sick. Mayan astronomers tracked the movements of the heavenly bodies, predicting eclipses and marking the times for the planting of the new corn. In fact, corn came to symbolize life for the Maya — in their myths of creation, mankind was formed from lumps of maize dough. Elaborate rituals grew up around the preparation of the milpas (cornfields) and the planting and harvesting of the crop whose success depended on the coming of the annual rains. These rituals were undertaken by a small number of initiates who controlled the knowledge of the Maya. Because the region has no surface rivers, rain was a precious resource and the Maya saw any stock of water, such as the limestone water holes or cenotes, as holy places. The rain god Chaac was a very important deity, whose image can be seen at every Mayan site.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-History.txt:The money earned by the plantation owners was spent on grand mansions along Mérida’s Paseo de Montejo; they were filled with the best in furniture, porcelain, and artwork. The Indians, however, worked the land for a pittance. In the east, some scraped out a living by tapping the sap of the zapote or chicle tree and selling it to American manufacturers of chewing gum. Unfortunately, when the henequen bubble burst in the 1930s with the advent of synthetic fibers, the peninsula fell into an economic decline from which there seemed to be little hope of respite.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-History.txt:These questions are for governments based in Mexico City, many miles from the Yucatán. A greater question for the region itself: Can the development be controlled? What was a deserted coastline two decades ago is now a bustling Riviera. Coral reefs are being damaged by careless divers; lagoons that once teemed with tropical fish are now being polluted by suntan lotion; the beaches where sea turtles once laid their eggs are being taken over by sun-beds and volleyball nets; crocodiles and manatees that once cruised the coastal waters are now endangered species. Conservation areas such as Rio Lagartos, in the north, give hope for the future, but conservationists lost one recent battle, when they were powerless to prevent the International Pier at Puerto Maya on Cozumel from being built directly on top of North Paradise Reef. Cancún — in fact the whole Yucatán peninsula — is embroiled in an important struggle, one that is being faced all over the world — the battle between the conflicting demands of development and conservation.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhatToDo.txt:Mayan themes. The Maya have a special place in the imagination — perhaps only surpassed by the ancient Egyptians — and their traditional motifs and copies of their ceremonial artifacts make popular souvenirs. Carvings of the gods, Chaac Mool in particular, along with revered creatures such as the jaguar or the feathered serpent, are produced in stone, onyx, silver, wood, and papier-mâché, in various sizes from lucky talisman for your purse to sculpture for your garden.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhatToDo.txt:It is also possible to dive and swim in cenotes, sinkholes found in the sub-surface limestone layer of the Yucatán peninsula, caused by millions of years of erosion. The Maya considered them to be holy places because they were the only source of fresh water other than what fell from the sky; for this reason, Mayan artifacts have been found in many cenotes. The holes provide an environment for turtles, eels, and a variety of tropical fish. Swimming in the cool, fresh water of the cenotes (a nice change from the salt water of the sea) is great fun. Cenote diving is only for the experienced. Always go through a reputable dive company; the companies listed above will offer further advice.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhatToDo.txt:The caves at Loltún. These caves offer a relatively easy and safe introduction to the underground world. Some of the caverns are huge; the Mayan artifacts make it even more interesting.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:When the Mexican government decided to improve its economy by developing its tourist industry, a totally new, tailor-made, high-class resort was the aim; the major decision was where its site should be. Many factors were taken into account before a short list of locations was entered into a computer. When the final results were correlated, Cancún was top of the list.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:The street running along the seafront is Avenida Rafael Melgar, also known as the Malecón, almost constantly busy with traffic. It is lined with numerous duty-free stores selling fragrances, designer clothing, and jewelry and gemstones. Above these are bars and restaurants that keep the street buzzing until the early hours of the morning. Stop in at the Museo de la Isla de Cozumel (Museum of the Island of Cozumel) on Avenida Melgar, which displays some interesting artifacts found on the island and salvaged from wrecks around its shores. The two main rooms on the first floor offer simple explanations about the geology of the Yucatán peninsula and the development of coral reefs offshore. The second-floor rooms tell the story of Cozumel’s history, from ancient Mayan carvings to conquistador helmets and swords. There is also a room dedicated to the families who settled in Cozumel in the 19th century — after the War of the Castes — and who have developed the island since that time.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:Traveling south from Cancún, the first town you will pass, at 36 km (22 miles), is Puerto Morelos, the port for vehicle ferries to the island of Cozumel. A thirty-minute journey from Cancún is Tres Ríos, a natural reserve with facilities for snorkeling, kayaking, and horseback riding. Further south, Playa del Carmen, once a tiny settlement, is now the fastest growing resort in the area. For many years Playa was simply a stepping-stone to Cozumel, only a 40-minute boat ride away — in fact the hotels along Cozumel’s coastline can clearly be seen from the town jetty. But the town, sitting on a wonderful pale-sand beach with clear, bright azure water, has become an attraction in itself. It now boasts several large hotels and a pretty traffic-free street one block west of the strand, Calle 5, where the souvenir stores, cafés, and bars spill out into the street. As day turns to night, music from rock to reggae floats in the air. All this gives the town a rather bohemian atmosphere.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:Puerto Aventuras is an interesting development, unlike any place else on the Maya Riviera. The rocky coastal inlets have been transformed into a magnificent marina, with mooring for yachts and motor launches and a walkway along the waterside. Sympathetic two- and three-story pastel painted buildings line the marina, with restaurants at ground level. The whole area has the feel of the Italian or French Rivera rather than Caribbean Mexico. At the center of the resort, in the sheltered waters of the inner lagoon, there is a “Swim with the Dolphins” program. Just beside the dolphin pools is Museo CEDAM (Club de Exploración y Deporte Acuático de México), which is dedicated to a number of pioneers of underwater archaeology and exploration. The museum has a wooden floor covered in sand, which adds a touch of the nautical as you wander among the exhibits. Interesting finds from the ocean floor — Mayan, Spanish-colonial, and more modern artifacts — combine with displays of early diving equipment. You will also see stunning photographs of underwater environments taken by leading practicians of the art.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:Edificio de las Monjas (Edifice of the Nuns), lying farthest south, is perhaps the most Puuc in style (see page 66) of all the buildings here. It stands on the site of much older buildings that can be seen in the interior. Nearby is a building called, surprisingly, La Iglesia (The Church). It isn’t a place of Christian worship — in fact it is one of the oldest buildings on the site, and pays homage to the bacah, a group of gods thought to have held up the sky. Images of snail and tortoise can be seen here, among others. The walls of Akab Dzib, the Temple of Obscure Writing, to the east of the Church, are filled with Mayan glyphs, the written language of the people that has been the focus of much attention and research in the last 30 years.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:The most impressive of the remaining period buildings is Palacio Canton, which now houses the Museo Regional de Antropología e Historia (Regional Anthropological and History Museum). The beautiful plasterwork detail and marble floors of the palace are only surpassed by the wealth of Mayan artifacts on display. The museum displays illustrate the most recent theories on Mayan society — so much of which is still conjecture —  including trade patterns and social customs. On the second floor of the museum, exhibitions relate the methods used to excavate various sites around Yucatán. The museum is an excellent starting point for your tour of the Mayan sites.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:The Mayan settlements of the Puuc region were extremely rich in Classical and post-Classical times because the soil has always been extremely fertile. It produced, and in fact still does, several crops each year, where farmers on the lowland (the rest of Yucatán) could only produce one or maybe two. The surpluses produced allowed the community to support artisans such as stonemasons — making the buildings here very ornate — and to trade with other communities for goods and raw materials not naturally available in the Puuc region.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:The route south from Mérida is the main road to the city of Campeche in the state of same name. You’ll travel through countryside once filled with haciendas (old colonial farms very much like plantations in the Caribbean). When the henequen boom was at its height, the number of haciendas grew dramatically, but when the system was dismantled in 1937 most fell into decline. The hacienda consisted of a main house surrounded by its land, a factory, and a village for the hacienda workers. This would include a school and a company store where workers were forced to buy their supplies. Many of the modern villages of this region have their roots in the hacienda system. As you pass through them you may see an old chimney breaking above the tree line, a sure sign that the village was once part of a hacienda.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cancun-WhereToGo.txt:Turn off at route 261 and at km 33 you will find Hacienda Yaxcopoil, one of the oldest in Yucatán and now a museum dedicated to the old lifestyle. The main house dates from the 17th century and has been owned by the present family since 1864. The whole site is faded and aging, yet it is still possible to discern vestiges of its glory days. It was one of the earliest and largest henequen plants in operation and the old factory engines can still be seen, along with stock rooms and tool stores surrounded by present-day crops growing in the fields. The plant stopped processing its own crops in 1984. The hacienda school still operates — but now as a state school. The owner intends to preserve but not renovate the buildings, allowing the past to tell its story.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-History.txt:A golden age began, and a university was established in the capital city, Chang’an (now Xi’an). Intellectuals, who had been harried by the Qin, were encouraged in their creative endeavors; with the invention of paper, the influence of their writings spread. Sculpture, ceramics, and silk manufacture flourished. And Buddhism, a new religion, came to China from India via Tibet; it was to have an enduring effect on Chinese life and art.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-History.txt:In Chinese, the word Ming is written as a composite of the characters for “sun” and “moon,” which are combined to mean “brilliant” or “glorious.” In fact, the dynasty (1368–1644) didn’t quite live up to its name. Beauty was achieved in architecture, sculpture, and the decorative arts. But literature, now serving an ever-wider audience, produced few masterworks, and philosophy saw no new developments. Science, which had been far more advanced than in Europe, was so gravely neglected that China became a technological backwater.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-History.txt:Towards the end of hostilities, China entered World War I on the side of the Allies. But the Versailles Peace conference proved a bitter disappointment when Japan, and not China, won control over Germany’s former holdings in Shandong Province. Frustration inspired protest demonstrations. The targets of increasing bitterness were the foreign powers and the regime in Beijing, as agitation for drastic social reforms caught the imagination of students and factory workers.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhatToDo.txt:Fans. One factory in Hangzhou alone manufactures 10 million fans per year, most of them for export. They come in several hundred varieties, but the best known folding fans are made of fragrant sandalwood or black paper.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhatToDo.txt:Toys. Cheap and unusual children’s toys, from cuddly animals to mechanical games, are being manufactured in increasing numbers in China.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhatToDo.txt:During the Cultural Revolution, Beethoven and Tchaikovsky were banned and many musicians banished to the countryside for “re-education.” So if you go to a concert today, you’ll sense the drama of recovery from mad xenophobia. This needn’t obscure the fact that some professional musicians haven’t yet reached world standards. But the enthusiasm of players and audience is exciting in itself.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The Chinese name for this convergence of natural and man-made beauty is Yiheyuan — the “Park of Nurtured Harmony.” Foreigners call this 280-hectare (700-acre) imperial estate the Summer Palace. In actual fact, the 250-year-old palaces, pavilions, temples, and halls occupy only a small part of the dreamily landscaped area. By far the largest feature of the park is Kunming Lake.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Contemporary Chinese historians wax indignant that, under the Qing Dynasty, funds appropriated for the imperial navy were, in fact, siphoned off to make Yiheyuan an increasingly luxurious private park. Perhaps the most astonishing of the items on which the Empress Dowager Cixi squandered the naval budget is a double-decker Marble Boat beached at the edge of the lake. You can view this monument to royal folly, but you can no longer board it.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Ninety-one steps take you down below ground level to Dingling (the tomb of the Emperor Wanli, whose reigned from 1573 to 1620). It took 30,000 workers six years to build this underground palace. Most of the regalia and artifacts on display, including the red wooden coffin containers in the burial vault, are copies of the items discovered during excavations in the 1950s.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:For most tourists the prime attraction of the region is found in the northeast part of town: the Hunan Provincial Museum, with its renowned relics of the Han Dynasty, including silks, ceramics, and lacquerware of unbelievable sophistication, as well as alluring figurines and musical instruments. All these artifacts survived because they were buried in coffins within coffins in subterranean royal tombs. These beautiful wooden boxes come from the royal graves at Mawangdui, as does the museum’s show-stopper: the remarkably well-preserved silk-wrapped mummy of the Marquis of Dai’s wife, Tohou, who died at age 50 in 186 b.c. Nearly 2,200 years later, her hair is still on her head and her expression is unchanged from the moment of her last breath.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Tourists in Changsha are sometimes taken to visit the local embroidery factory, where Hunan’s handicraft tradition has flourished for 2,000 years. Staff artists paint original designs, usually of landscapes, animals, birds, or flowers, which the artisans reproduce stitch by microscopic stitch in colorful silk. The workers here are proudest of the double-faced embroidery, with a different picture on each side.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:It takes about seven hours by train from Beijing to reach Datong, to the west in Shanxi (Shansi) Province. The trip, through some gorgeous mountain country, is a favorite of train enthusiasts who are drawn to Datong to see the quaint steam locomotives still at work in the center of China’s richest coal-mining region. Coal was the logical fuel for the long trains carrying coal to the rest of the country, and Datong became the major steam locomotive manufacturer for China. The Datong Locomotive Works could turn out a locomotive every working day. This factory now makes diesel engines only, but it is open for tours, highlighted by a ride on one of the old steam locomotives.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:With a population above 6 million, Guangzhou is primarily an industrial city of more than 3,200 factories. Production lines turn out buses, ships, agricultural machinery, chemicals, and sewing machines. It is one of China’s richest cities, with new skyscrapers, expressways, and fashionable shopping centers to prove it. Although the economy has changed radically in recent years, many local traditions live on, including the love of flowers, Cantonese Opera, and the local dialect (incomprehensible to fellow Chinese). And then there is Cantonese food — some say the world’s greatest cuisine — much appreciated in its adaptations internationally but unexcelled when created in its home kitchen.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Yue Xiu Park, near the Trade Fair in the northern part of the city, covers a 93-hectare (230-acre) site. In addition to its pretty gardens, lakes, pavilions, and sports facilities, Guangzhou’s largest park also contains the city’s oldest building, the red “Tower Overlooking the Sea” (Zhenhailou). Actually, “tower” is a misleading description for this building of five stories. Built in 1380, it now houses the municipal museum (Guangzhou Bowuguan). With signs in English and Chinese, the museum is quite interesting and includes artifacts and displays recording the city’s contacts with the West (from Bibles to radios). The top floor of this watchtower museum is now a charming teahouse.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The atmosphere of 19th-century colonial “Canton” is best evoked by Shamian Island, in the Pearl River, linked to central Guangzhou by two bridges. This small residential enclave, shaded by banyan trees, was the closed community of the foreign colony in the era of the Western “concessions.” The stately European-style buildings, including old banks, factories, and churches, have been spruced up. Sidewalk cafés, boutiques, traditional craft shops, and the stunning White Swan Hotel make this Guangzhou’s leading place for a stroll. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The climate is subtropical, with an annual rainfall of 190 cm (75 inches), so avoid the rainiest season, from April through July. An additional incentive for visiting in autumn is the sight and fragrance of osmanthus (cassia) blossoms all over town; in fact, the name Guilin means “Cassia Woods.”
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The weather can be a critical factor in the pleasure of mountain rambles and sightseeing. On average, mid-July to the end of September is considered the most dependable time of year because of the mild temperatures and relatively restrained rainfall. Drizzle rather than heavy rain generally falls from late May to late June, when the spring flowers burst forth, but temperatures are brisk. Mist and fog often enhance the views.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The Iron Pagoda (Tieta), Kaifeng’s best known symbol, only looks as if it’s made of iron. The exterior walls are faced with glazed bricks and tiles of an iron-like hue. Built in 1049 and restored in modern times, it is a lucky 13 tiers tall. It was originally part of a sixth-century monastery complex, but the other buildings were washed away in one of the great floods of the 19th century. Another relic of the Song Dynasty, the square and imposing Pota (“Pagoda of the Po Family”) reveals none of the high-flying grace of the Iron Pagoda. This might be excused by the fact that the top three tiers of the building collapsed several hundred years ago.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Lanzhou is the capital of Gansu (Kansu) Province, which extends from the farmland of the Yellow River basin through the narrow Gansu corridor, with its steep rocky mountains, to China’s far west of desert and oases. Lanzhou received its name under the Sui Dynasty more than a thousand years ago. In recent times its role as a transportation center has strengthened with the spread of the railways and air routes. Industrial development here since 1949 has transformed the city, adding vast new suburbs of oil refineries and factories. The population of the metropolitan area now tops 2 million.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:For a view of the muddy, swiftly moving Yellow River and the city along its banks, go along to White Pagoda Hill Park (Baitashan Gongyuan), once a military stronghold. The temple itself, an octagonal seven-tier structure, was rebuilt in the 15th century. Five Springs Hill Park (Wuquanshan Gongyuan) climbs a steep mountainside on the opposite bank of the river. The springs provide water for various needs, from making tea to ensuring fertility. To break up the climb there are temples and pavilions to visit and a big pond crossed by a crooked bridge. The temples date from the 14th century; one artifact, a 5-ton bronze bell, was cast in 1202.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:In the tenth century the imperial court moved from Luoyang to the northeast. Luoyang later became capital of the central province of Henan, but by the 20th century it was merely a shadow of its former self. After the Communists took power, they decided to revive the small, sleepy city as a model industrial center. Hundreds of new factories were built, turning out tractors, mining equipment, ball bearings, and thousands of other products.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The Nanjing Museum (Nanjing Bowuguan), founded in 1933, is located inside Zhongshan Gate, the main eastern portal of the city wall. Among art and artifacts from prehistoric times to the end of the empire, the museum displays colorful ancient pottery, elegant figurines, and a famous jade burial suit 2,000 years old. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Between 1937 and 1945, Shanghai was occupied by Japanese troops; most of the foreign colony was interned. After the war the Guomindang Nationalists took power, but Communist troops seized Shanghai in 1949. The new regime wiped out organized crime and vice, expropriated factories and built new ones, setting the city on a new industrial course. In 1965 the Cultural Revolution was sparked off in Shanghai, as the political base of Jiangqing, the former Shanghai actress who was Mao’s wife. After the death of Mao and the arrest of the Gang of Four, Shanghai culture and art experienced a renaissance, and the new economic policies of the 1990s benefited Shanghai more than any other city. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Unequivocally, the Shanghai Museum (Shanghai Bowuguan) is the best in China, especially in terms of its state-of-the-art displays and presentation. There are four floors of exhibits with stalls on each floor selling gifts and museum reproductions. Bronzes and stone sculptures are on the first floor, ceramics are on the second floor, paintings and calligraphy are on the third floor, and coins, jade, and furniture are on the fourth floor. Not all of the museum’s 120,000 artifacts can be displayed here at one time, but many visitors savor these displays and insist upon a return visit. For a break during museum browsing, there’s a lovely tearoom on the second floor. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The fighting monks in a thousand kung fu films can trace their origin to the Shaolin Monastery in Henan Province. In fact, the Chinese martial arts and such offshoots as the gentler exercise forms known as taiqi have their symbolic, if not literal, birthplace at this monastery. The branch of Buddhism known as Chan (“Zen” in Japan and the West) also looks to Shaolin as its source.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Whether you go to Suzhou from Shanghai or Nanjing, you will be moved by the wayside scenery, typical of China’s “land of fish and rice.” Sampans and scows ply the canals that divide the farmlands, where barefoot peasants in straw coolie hats squelch through the muddy rice fields. The Grand Canal is crowded with strings of barges laden with fruit and vegetables, construction materials, or coal. Suzhou in fact means “Plentiful Water.”
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Suzhou is also famous for its silk production. The Suzhou Silk Museum exhibits the 5,000 years of silk history in the region, and the Museum of Suzhou Embroidery is a working factory and sales outlet featured on many city tours.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:In Mongolian, Urumqi means “Fine Pasture.” In Uighur, it’s spelled with umlauts: Ürümqi. The Chinese make four syllables of it. However you read or write it, Urumqi sounds remote and exotic. Remote it is — the most distant major city in the world from any ocean or saltwater sea. Exotic? In fact, Urumqi has an exotic population of minority and nomadic peoples, but it has been developed by the Han Chinese into a modern industrial city. And the Chinese (mostly recent “economic” migrants) make up 75 percent of its 1.5 million residents.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Having made history over several thousand years, the city of today is more populous than ever (at 2 million residents) and proud of its leafy new avenues, modern factories, and housing projects. But there’s no avoiding the past in this treasure trove of Chinese civilization. Xi’an and its surrounding countryside preserve the glories of eleven dynasties, and it is as a storehouse of China’s Qin, Han, and Tang Dynasty treasures that Xi’an has reached the top ranks of international tourism.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Xi’an has two fine museums. The Shaanxi Provincial Museum (Shaanxi Shengbowuguan), occupying the 14th-century grounds of the Temple to Confucius, holds a rich store of art works and rare artifacts: funerary figurines, traditional paintings, ancient household equipment, and huge bronzes masterfully cast 3,000 years ago. But the chief focus must be on the museum’s famous Forest of Steles (Beilin). This library of inscribed stone slabs, including a complete edition of the Confucian classics (carved in a.d. 837), documents the history of Chinese culture and calligraphy. The Nestorian Stele records another history altogether, that of Christianity in China from 635 to 781. The art of calligraphy is exalted in this museum as nowhere else. The street leading to the old museum along the southern city wall, Shuyuanmen, has been restored and offers a fine collection of traditional art and calligraphy shops. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:The oldest of the region’s archaeological wonders are found in a museum erected on the very site where they were discovered. This is at the Stone Age site of Banpo, 10 km (6 miles) east of Xi’an. Six thousand years ago a village, evidently thriving, occupied this farmland, but traces of habitation came to light only in the 1950s, when workmen were digging the foundations for a new factory.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Jingdezhen (Chingtehchen), Jiangxi Province. Jingdezhen has been producing famous pottery since the Han Dynasty. White clay from a nearby mountain made possible the very thin, durable, translucent porcelain. The mountain, Gaoling, gave its name to kaolin, the clay used to make porcelain. Tourists visit an ancient kiln as well as modern ceramics factories that turn out copies of classic designs.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/China-WhereToGo.txt:Weifang, Shandong Province. An international kite festival held here every April 20–21 attracts over 300,000 guests, nearly doubling the town’s population. Weifang maintains an extensive kite museum, and the local village of Yangjiabu offers kite-making demonstrations at its factory outlet complex.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-History.txt:With the introduction of a sophisticated irrigation system, crops such as rice, cotton, and sugar cane were cultivated for the first time on Spanish soil, as well as oranges, peaches, and pomegranates. The manufacture of paper and glass was another Moorish innovation. Skilled engineers and architects, the Moors built numerous palaces and fortifications. As superb craftsmen they excelled in the production of ceramics and tooled leather, as well as delicate silverware.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-History.txt:Aided by British troops, who were subsequently commanded by the Duke of Wellington, the Spanish drove the French out of the Iberian Peninsula. At Tarifa, the enemy was defeated literally overnight in an offensive of 1811. What the world now knows as the Peninsular War (1808– 1814) is in fact referred to in Spain as the War of Independence. During this troubled period, Spain’s first, short-lived, constitution was drafted, and their colonies of South America won their independence.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhatToDo.txt:Leather and Suede: Choose from a wide selection of handbags, belts, wallets, trousers, skirts, and coats. Leather goods, while no longer the bargain they once were, compare favorably in price with Italian and French made articles, and the local factories do turn out stylish, high-quality leather clothing. Córdoba, which has been producing leather goods since Roman times, is famous for its embossed leather.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhatToDo.txt:As a rule of thumb, the better events are held in the better plazas, particularly during the ferías (holiday fairs) held in the major cities. Equally true is the fact that most of the events held in the resort towns are mainly for the benefit of tourists, and are of lesser quality. They are not generally less expensive, though; small rings mean fewer seats, which often equates to higher prices. Contrary to popular opinion, bullfights are not held every Sunday in each city. In fact, outside of the ferías — when they are held daily — only Sevilla has them on a regular basis throughout the season. In other places, with the exception of Easter Sunday and August 15 — important national holidays — they are held sporadically and advertised by way of the ubiquitous carteles (posters) stuck on every wall. Be warned, though, these events are never less than bloody — and can be much worse. They are, however, enthralling spectacles, and whatever your reaction, you’ll gain a valuable insight into the country and the people.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhatToDo.txt:When you’re on the beach, don’t forget that kids are especially vulnerable to the effects of too much sun. Take along plenty of high-factor sunscreen and sun hats, and make sure they’re covered up during the middle of the day (a siesta during the hottest part of the day may be a good idea to avoid sunburn).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:Heading west it appears, at first glance, that Benalmádena-Costa is indistinguishable from its close neighbor. However, this isn’t really so. In fact, it is somewhat less built up and frenetic than Torremolinos, even though it is well endowed with bars, discos, and clubs. Its fine beaches stretch for 9 km (over 5 miles), beginning at the large and attractive Puerto Deportivo on the border with Torremolinos. Focal points are the three Moorish watch towers; the pink, neo-Moorish walls of Castillo El Bil-Bil, built by a Frenchwoman in the 1930s and used for concerts, exhibitions, and as a tourist office; and one of the Costa del Sol’s casinos at the huge and impressive Torrequebrada complex.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:But Marbella has its historic side, too. In fact, its history dates back some 1,600 years, even though most of what can be seen, in the town at least, dates from the time of the Catholic Monarchs and later. North of the main road, the Casco Antiguo (Old Town) provides an intriguing glimpse of the past that has been cleverly integrated to cater to modern visitors. First, sit at a café table in the Plaza de los Naranjos (Square of the Orange Trees), where you can admire the noble 16th-century façade of the Casa Consistorial (Town Hall) and soak up the atmosphere. Then wander through the maze of narrow, twisting streets where the whitewashed walls are decorated with colorful baskets of flowers.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:Whether you’re traveling in your own car or in an official taxi or minivan, don’t leave Gibraltar without taking a tour of the Upper Rock Nature Reserve area. On the way up note the yellow patches and their accompanying metal rings; these were used when manually hauling the heavy cannons up the Rock. Also of interest is the fact that there is no soil on the Upper Rock; the 600 species of wildflower here grow directly out of the limestone from which the Rock is formed.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:The ancient city of Cádiz, sitting at the end of a very narrow peninsula of land that runs parallel to the coast, was founded by the Phoenicians in 1100 b.c. and is considered to be Spain’s oldest town. In fact, Cádiz’s amazing amalgam of history is not readily apparent, with only the remains of the old Roman Theater to give much evidence of the city’s age. It was re-conquered by Alfonso X in 1262 and granted the Monopoly of Trade with Africa by the Catholic Monarchs in 1493. Columbus also departed from this city on his second and fourth voyages in 1493 and 1502, respectively. In the latter part of the 16th century, it twice came under attack by enemy naval forces, and a period of prosperity ensued when the Casa de Contratación, or the monopoly rights for trade with the Americas, was transferred from Sevilla by order of Felipe V in 1717. A century later on 19 March 1812, while under attack from Napoleon’s forces, the national parliament met in the St. Felipe Neri Church and proclaimed the first Spanish parliament.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:This small town, on the coast of the Bay of Cádiz, looks across to the town of the same name and has considerable charm. It is generally overlooked by foreign visitors, but the Spanish flock here in the thousands, especially during August. Then, when there are a series of bullfights, the seafood and shellfish restaurants for which El Puerto is famous are full to overflowing until the early hours. In fact, there isn’t too much to see here, but that’s okay — El Puerto de Santa María is one of those places that is to be savored for its ambience. Positioned between Jerez de la Frontera and Cádiz, El Puerto is easily reached by road or rail. However, the most delightful way to get here is on the small ferryboat, El Adriano, which plies its way between the center of Cádiz and the dockside in El Puerto.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:It was already a thriving riverside settlement when Julius Caesar arrived in 45 b.c., and under the Romans, it developed into a major town. In fact, two Roman emperors, Hadrian and Trajan, were born in nearby Itálica. Subsequently, Sevilla became the capital of the Visigothic kingdom and then of a Moorish taifa, before falling to King Ferdinand III in 1248. A monopoly of trade with the New World brought the city to its peak during the Golden Age. “Madrid is the capital of Spain,” the saying went, “but Sevilla is the capital of the world.”
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:Two museums are housed inside the palace. The first, the Museo Nacional de Arte Hispano-Musulmán (Museum of Hispano-Moorish Art), displays such evocative artifacts as the throne of the Nasrids, a wooden armchair inlaid with silver and ivory, and the Alhambra Vase, which once graced the Hall of the Two Sisters. The second, known as the Museo de Bellas Artes (Fine Arts Museum), contains a collection of works chronicling the development of the school of Granada between the 16th and 19th centuries.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:This is a remote area even today, located as it is between the Sierra Nevada and Sierra de la Contraviesa mountain ranges, with the southern slopes of the latter dropping graciously into the Mediterranean Sea. Not particularly pretty, it is dotted with small towns and villages that retain many appearances of a lifestyle long since departed from other areas. The way of life here in the early 20th century was detailed explicitly by Gerald Brenan in his book South from Granada. In fact, these communities fall into one of two areas depending on their altitude and climate; those in La Alpujarra Alta (the high Alpujarra), just south of the highest peaks in the Sierra Nevada and those in La Alpujarra Baja (the low Alpujarra) in the Sierra de la Contraviesa. Trevelez, considered the highest village in Spain, is famous for its jamón serrano (dried cured ham), and Lanjarón is familiar throughout Spain as the name on the red, green, and white label on bottles of water originating from the town’s springs. Incidentally, that same water runs free from the fuentes (fountains) of many villages.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:Doñana National Park This is probably the most famous park in Spain. It holds many national and international honors, and is even listed as a World Heritage Site. Consisting of 86,208 hectares (213,020 acres), it is bordered on two sides by the Atlantic Ocean and the Guadalquivir River as it winds its way down from Sevilla to reach the ocean at Sanlúcar de Barrameda. In fact, Doñana is the last great lowland wilderness sanctuary in southern Europe, and has three distinct ecosystems: the marismas (salt marshes), matorral (brushwood), and las dunas (sand dunes). Within its bounds can be found an amazing array of animal, bird, and plant life, but what you see is very much dependent upon the time of year you visit and, even then, can be very hit or miss.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Costa-WhereToGo.txt:El Torcal de Antequera and the Fuente de Piedra Just south of the city of Antequera is one of the more famous geological formations in Spain. The limestone mountains of the El Torcal de Antequera have eroded to form some of the most unusual shapes seen anywhere. In fact, these formations so resemble modern sculptures that they have been assigned comical names. Just north of Antequera, droughts notwithstanding, is the Fuente de Piedra, Andalucía’s largest lake, with a surface area that can reach 1,384 hectares (3,420 acres). Each spring, provided that weather conditions are favorable, it becomes a home to flamingos. In fact, it is the only inland breeding area in Europe for this colorful species. Springtime means the islet of La Colonia becomes one of the most crowded bird habitats anywhere (more than 16,000 breeding pairs were identified in 1996). Over 150 species of birds have been counted on the lake or in surrounding areas.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-History.txt:But the Roman empire, overstretched and increasingly corrupt, began to crumble. The Romans withdrew from Spain, leaving the country to be overrun by various barbarian tribes, especially the Vandals. These tribes were eventually subdued by the Visigoths, who controlled much of southern Spain for some 300 years. But they did not integrate, nor did they learn the lessons of history; in a palace intrigue, one faction invited the Moors into the country as their allies.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-History.txt:The Moors were relatively tolerant rulers who taxed non-believers rather than trying to convert them. They introduced the manufacture of paper, which is carried on today in Játiva. They laid out a system of irrigation still in use in the Guadalest Valley and filled the huertas (orchards) of the Costa Blanca with oranges, peaches, and pomegranates. Rice, cotton, and sugar cane were also first cultivated on Spanish soil by the Moors.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-History.txt:Parliamentary democracy was impeded by the ideological commitment of various political factions and compromise was rare. There was a succession of right-wing attempts to govern and Spain floundered in a sea of political strikes and violence. Then the Left won the 1936 elections and was immediately in violent collision with the Right.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-WhatToDo.txt:You will often find the Costa Blanca’s best buys off the main streets or in the markets. For the greatest variety and lowest overall prices, shop in the side streets of Alicante. For special items, go inland to the place of manufacture, keeping in mind the prices asked on the coast and at home: Guadalest for ponchos and shawls; Gata for cane, basket work, and guitars; Crevillente for woven rugs and carpets; Jijona for turrón; Ibi for toys.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-WhatToDo.txt:Lladró porcelain has long been a collector’s item. The Lladró brothers opened their factory in Tabernes Blanques, near Valencia, in 1958. Opposite is a seconds shop with greatly reduced prices. Less detailed models are sold under the name Nao.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CostaBlanca-WhatToDo.txt:Among local meat specialities is gazpachos (with a final s to distinguish it from the chilled soup). This lusty, well-spiced Costa Blanca dish consists of pork, chicken, rabbit, and snails — and perhaps even a partridge or pigeon. It’s stewed in a large frying pan and traditionally eaten on a kind of pancake. Criadillas are considered a delicacy: more than one tourist-conscious menu bills them as “mountain oysters,” but they are in fact bulls’ testicles. When it’s time for a splurge, try cabrito asado (roast kid) or cochinillo (roast suckling pig). Both treats are expensive but delicious.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-History.txt:A great ancient Cretan civilization was for many years believed to be the stuff of mythology. Yet with the discovery of marvelous artifacts and evidence of its cities, Sir Arthur Evans, its principal advocate, made reality out of folklore and myth (see page 33). We now know many facts about Minoan Crete including that at the height of its influence, the population probably numbered more than 2 million, about four times greater than today’s figure, with 100,000 people in the capital, Knossós.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-History.txt:The Minoans were ruled by a priest-king who presided over both religious and economic affairs. It is unclear whether he reigned over the entire island, or if each palace settlement had its own regional king. His people worshipped the Mother Goddess, and divine power symbolized by the bull, for whom they performed ornate and elaborate rituals. One sacred symbol, which is at odds with their peaceful lifestyle, is the labrys (double-headed sword). Its image has been found on various artifacts throughout the island.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-History.txt:Though Western Europe’s leaders watched with baited breath, they sent little support, and inexorably Venetian resistance was worn away. As the conquerors entered the city gates in 1699, the Venetians negotiated an orderly departure, taking with them, among other Christian artifacts, the cherished head of Saint Titus. This most symbolic of Crete’s religious relics was not to return to the island until 1966.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhatToDo.txt:For many, the image of Greek music and dance is inexorably linked to the film “Zorba the Greek.” Anthony Quinn performs the syrtáki dance (in fact an amalgam of several different traditional dances), to the sound of the bouzoúki, a stringed guitar-type instrument that produces melodic, slightly metallic sounds. When played live it has a haunting melody, but taverna owners do have the irritating habit of playing it at high decibels through overloaded speakers. This does a great disservice to the Greek musical tradition, which is rich, varied and goes back for hundreds of years. The tradition is still particularly strong on Crete where traditional musicians and singers are held in high regard. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhatToDo.txt:You don’t really need to pack a suitcase before you travel. You can buy everything you need for your vacation here. Greek cotton is manufactured into a range of good value cool cotton clothing that is perfect for touring and exploring. Shorts, pants, shirts, and dresses hang against alley walls in all the major towns; it’s just a matter of finding a style that you like. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Iráklion comes as a surprise to travelers used to Greek islands further north in the Aegean Sea. It is a true city bustling with activity, dust, and noise. The commercial and administrative heart of Crete, its streets are filled with bankers and business people. There is a lively young scene based around the university, and a sophistication to match other major Greek cities such as Athens or Thessalonica. However, this is not the only facet of the city. Around the harbor you’ll still find a fishing industry based on small family-owned boats, and small workshops in the narrow back streets that still manufacture by hand. Though there are many modern buildings, these sit shoulder to shoulder with fine old mansions and are evidence of an older Iráklion, which is fascinating to explore. Take time to see beyond the streets filled with traffic and you will be amply rewarded.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:The Archaeological Museum of Iráklion is without a doubt one of the greatest archaeological collections in the world. It brings together finds from sites all across the island and from every era of Crete’s long ancient history, shedding light on the everyday activities of its people. Pride of place has to go to the Minoan artifacts. As the pre-eminent center of this ancient people, Crete is the main source of information and excavated remains. The best finds from all Minoan sites are on display here. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:For most other museums this would be treasure enough, yet in Iráklion there are also impressive Greek and Roman artifacts to enjoy. The museum is a must for those intending to visit the ancient sites, since the objects here add life to the now empty cities and palaces. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:To fully appreciate all of its glories will take at least a couple of hours — the exquisite detail in painting on pottery and frescoes, and the fine workmanship in jewelry and everyday tools is breathtaking. Try to visit early to avoid the large tour groups who arrive in the middle of the day. The 20 rooms are arranged in chronological order, grouping artifacts from each site. Although you will surely find your own favorite pieces, here are some of the highlights you will discover on your tour.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Room 4 has finds from the golden age of Minoan society — the New-Palace period (1700–1450 b.c.). Artifacts originated in the palaces of Knossós, Mália, and Phaistós and include the superb rhyton (libation vessel used in ritual purification) carved from black steatite in the shape of a bull’s head. The bull was one of the foremost religious symbols of the Minoans and this artifact was created by one of the pre-eminent artisans of the time.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Room 5 holds objects from the final phase of Minoan civilization (1450–1400 b.c.). The pottery and stone work is worth studying, however the chief artifacts are the script fragments of Linear A type scribed on thin clay plates and not yet deciphered. Also exhibited are examples of Linear B type, which was deciphered in 1952 and is of Mycenaean origin — showing that by the time the tablet was written the Minoans had lost control of the major cities.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Room 7 concentrates on domestic utensils and personal objects found in the palaces and around the Megara (royal chambers). These include stone vessels, pottery, hammers and a potter’s wheel. There are several intricately carved steatite vessels, including the Harvesters Vase discovered at Aghía Triáda and decorated with a low relief of men at work in the fields. However, the highlight of the room is case 101, which displays gold jewelry of exquisite detail. The bee pendant found near Mália is one of the most recognizable Minoan artifacts; others include representations of the labrys — the double-axed sword.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Five kilometers (3 miles) directly south of the Iráklion is Knossós, now famed worldwide as the village where Sir Arthur Evans (then director of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford) found proof that the Cretan civilization of myth had been based on reality. Evans named them the Minoans after their most famous king — Minos. He began digging in 1900 after buying the site and financing the excavation program with his own money, and almost immediately struck the first building blocks of a huge Bronze Age palace replete with magnificent pottery and other artifacts. Evans’ subsequent attempts to recreate areas of the palace have met with intense criticism from other scholars but Knossós is now Crete’s premier attraction and rightly so. Though there is no documented proof, most Cretans believe that Knossós was the site of the famed battle between Theseus and the Minotaur in the Labryinth below King Minos’ palace. You may wish you had a ball of golden thread as you explore the maze of small rooms here, as it is very difficult to follow the map provided. It also becomes very busy in the middle of the day so arrive early if you want to contemplate the site with few distractions.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:The Archaeological Museum found at the top of Odós K. Paleólogou is worth a visit. It has a good collection of Minoan artifacts presented in chronological order. You will be able to view a sarcophagus with skeleton still in place, and the Goddess of Mírtos, a libation vessel dating from the 2nd millennium b.c. in the shape of a woman with a long neck and squat body. A later Roman find is the skull of Potamós, decorated with a crown of gold olive leaves. The coin nearby was found between the skull’s teeth and thought to be the dead man’s fare for the ferryboat across the River Styx to the underworld.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Resume your journey toward Kritsá, but don’t visit the village yet. Follow signs to Lató, the remains of a Dorian city (7th–3rd centuries b.c.) scattered around two scrub-covered hilltops to the north. The blocks of strong stone don’t come close to rivaling the fine fresco-covered walls of Minoan settlements, yet there is a satisfaction in both location and form when you climb among the remains of Lató. There are also wonderful views down to the coast from here.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:The Minoan palace of Zákros lies just behind this strand on flat ground with its associated town rising up the hillside beyond. The last Minoan settlement to be excavated, it did not give up its secrets until the 1960s and revealed a wealth of undisturbed artifacts adding greatly to knowledge about this enigmatic people. Tools and ceremonial objects were found just where they were dropped at the time of the great cataclysm along with the crystal rhyton on view in the Iráklion Museum and a chest containing hundreds of clay tablets inscribed with the Linear A script; archaeologists even discovered an urn with olives preserved though the millennia. Zákros was well-situated for trade with Egypt and Syria to the east and it had a large port serving both commercial and naval vessels. The city was founded by the Minoans, as there are no earlier remains below the palace complex. Building commenced around 1900 b.c., with remains from that date seen around the east wing. The palace proper was completed around 1600 b.c., and the destruction of 1450 b.c. saw a complete collapse of the city; it was never resettled. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Immediately outside the entrance to the fortress is an old Ottoman garrison building now housing the Archaeological Museum of Réthymnon. The collection covers finds from the Neolithic age onward and concentrates on Minoan finds in the ‘lesser’ (if one can use such a phrase for finds of this quality) sites, as there are no major palaces in the area. Cave sites have rendered some particularly interesting votive artifacts. Excavations of tombs have also been fruitful and the museum displays some beautiful clay sarcophagi. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Make your way back to the coastal road via Eleftherná, site of an ancient Doric site that has contributed artifacts to the archaeological collection at Réthymnon, and Margarítes, a potter’s village where you will be able to watch the artisans in action and buy some pretty souvenirs.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Odós Halidon is a major thoroughfare that cuts the old town from north to south. Here you’ll find Chaniá’s Archaeological Museum housed in an old Venetian monastery. There are numerous artifacts found at the Kydonía Minoan site, but equally impressive Greco-Roman remains including a collection of beautiful Hellenistic mosaics.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Crete-WhereToGo.txt:Among the boutiques and bars are two places of cultural interest. The Archaeological Museum with pottery and other artifacts found on the island, and The Megaron Gyzi Museum to the north of the cable car station, which is housed in a beautiful 17th-century fortified house. Most exciting of its varied collections is a display of photographs showing island scenes from before the devastating 1956 earthquake — the last major one to strike the island.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CstaBlanca-WhereToGo.txt:Jijona also lies within easy reach of the provincial capital. This town, just 27 km (14 miles) from Alicante on the N-340, is renowned for the manufacture of turrón, an exotic sweet of Moorish origin, made from ground almonds, orange-blossom honey, egg white, and sugar. Traditionally served by the Spanish at Christmas time, the flat bars of turrón are very hard. A softer, sweeter version called torta de turrón is oval and made with extra honey and whole almonds. You can learn all about this popular confection on a tour of El Lobo factory, founded in 1725. There’s even a small museum on the premises.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CstaBlanca-WhereToGo.txt:From Jijona, continue along the N-340 to Alcoy, 56 km (36 miles) from Alicante. Don’t be disappointed by this grey industrial town, for it manufactures some of Spain’s most popular sweets: they are peladillas, Marcona almonds coated with sugar. Sometimes pine kernels are sugar-coated, too, and the delicious result is called pinyonets.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CstaBlanca-WhereToGo.txt:La Vila, as Villajoyosa is affectionately called, boasts some Roman, Moorish, and Visigothic remains, and Spain’s oldest chocolate factories. But it’s the vivacious Moors and Christians fiesta, with its bare-bellied, flashing-eyed “slave-girls” and swashbuckling “corsairs,” that really makes the town unique. In the last week of July, many of the town’s 16,000 inhabitants parade and fight in richly costumed companies — los piratas, los tuareg, and los moros del Rif among them — re-enacting the defeat in 1538 of the Algerian pirate Zala Arráez, a Mediterranean scourge who started it all by sacking the castle in a daring dawn raid.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CstaBlanca-WhereToGo.txt:Directly above the old town, the Ermita de San Feliú (Saint Felix’s Hermitage) commands a wide view. Although it has been a Christian bastion since the third century, it was a pagan sacrificial site long before that. Continue uphill to the fortress, which is, in fact, two castles. Ramparts connect the smaller pre-Roman Castillo Menor (Small Castle) with the Roman and post-Roman Castillo Mayor (Main Castle), once notorious for its dungeon. Disgraced princes and other noblemen were confined here, their only solace being the ruined 15th-century chapel adjacent. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/CstaBlanca-WhereToGo.txt:Nineteenth-century travellers sped through neighbouring Crevillente in fear of the notorious bandit James the Bearded. Today, Crevillente’s industrial appearance similarly induces haste. But those unattractive factories produce 70 percent of Spain’s handsome woven rugs and carpets, and many invite visitors.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-History.txt:Since the 1920s disillusionment with the nascent republic — with its clear dependence on the United States and its lack of political probity or social equality — had grown steadily. Although Cuba had the second-highest per capita income in Latin America, prosperity did not filter down from the upper classes. In fact, the World Bank in 1950 declared as many as 60 percent of Cubans undernourished. In Havana there was a greater concentration of millionaires than anywhere else in Central or South America, and the capital was dubbed “an offshore Las Vegas” for its brothels, casinos, and gangsters.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-History.txt:Castro’s fledgling government immediately ordered rents reduced, new wage levels set, and estates limited in size to 390 hectares (966 acres). A comprehensive nationalization program followed, and the government expropriated factories, utilities, and more land. The foundations were set for near-universal state employment. At the same time, the new government instituted sweeping, enlightened programs to eradicate illiteracy and provide free universal schooling and health care.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-History.txt:Until the end of the 1980s, Soviet trade and subsidies were crucial factors in propping up Cuba’s heavily centralized and often badly planned economy. But the subsequent dismantling of the Soviet Union suddenly left Cuba bereft of food, oil, and hard currency.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhatToDo.txt:Cigars and rum. The biggest bargain in Cuba is probably a coveted box of premium cigars, which at home might cost four times more. Cigar factories open to tourists have affiliated shops selling all brands of cigars; the Partagás factory in Havana has a particularly good shop. You can also purchase cigars at such Havana shops as Casa del Tabaco (Calle Obispo and Bernaza) and La Casa del Habano (Calle Mercaderes, 120), at hotels, and at the airport. You’ll find Habanos shops in several other towns and resorts (Trinidad’s is on Lino Pérez, 296).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Much of restored Old Havana is concentrated in only a few blocks at the eastern end of these streets. On the corner of Mercaderes and Obispo is the recently renovated, 1920s-era Hotel Ambos Mundos; Hemingway lived on and off in room 511 for a couple of years during the 1930s. The room contains original artifacts from Hemingway’s many years in Cuba, including the typewriter he used to write most of For Whom the Bell Tolls (those not staying in the hotel can visit the room for US$2).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Directly behind the Capitolio is the large Partagás Tobacco Factory, the biggest export factory in the country — with more than 200 rollers churning out 5 million cigars a year — and one of Havana’s top tourist draws. This factory, which has been rolling out puros since the mid-19th century, is the best (and, with an admission fee of US$10, the most expensive) to visit on the island; it also has an excellent tobacco shop and smoking lounge for aficionados and wannabes. There are two tours daily (see page 81). If the cigars inside strike you as too expensive, you’ll have plenty of opportunity to purchase fake or stolen stogies outside the factory, as every third person whispers “You want cigar?” as you pass.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:The neighborhood known as Cayo Hueso, just behind the Malecón, is a rough-and-tumble barrio once populated by cigar-factory workers. Today the main reason to visit is to check out Calle Hamel, where the artist Salvador González has dedicated himself to preserving the area’s Afro-Cuban culture. The small alleyway, the scene of a good many photo shoots, is entirely done over in street art and graffiti. González has his studio here, and on Sundays at around 1pm there are performances of Afro-Cuban ritual and rumba.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:At the end of the highway, 175 km (109 miles) west of Havana, the small city of Pinar del Río is a bustling commercial center. Along the main street, Calle José Martí, low-rise neoclassical buildings in blues, yellows, greens, and orange have a stately but dilapidated quality. In backstreet houses men make homemade cigars; you’ll find a small, interesting tobacco factory, Francisco Donatien Fábrica de Tobacos, housed in an old jail below the Plaza de la Independencia. Visitors are welcome here and at the less picturesque Casa Garay Rum Factory, on Avenida Isabel Rubio, where they make a local rum liqueur called guayabita del Pinar.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Central Cuba comprises five provinces: from west to east these are Cienfuegos, Villa Clara, Sancti Spiritus, Ciego de Avila, and Camagüey. Each focuses on a provincial city of the same or similar name, typically of some interest yet not likely to detain you for longer than a day. The west has the best scenery, found in the lush Sierra del Escambray mountains. To the east of Sancti Spiritus, towns are plunked down on unremittingly flat plains. Here, sugar cane as high as three men grows in abundance, trucks trundle around with monster bundles of the stuff, and chimneys of sugar-cane factories poke skyward like cathedral towers. In Camagüey, the cattle-ranch province, rusty watermills punctuate the skyline and vaqueros (cowboys) slouch on horses with machetes and lassos at the ready.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:A block south of Plaza Mayor on Calle Simón Bolivar stands the grand Palacio Cantero, built in 1830. Painted pillars, scrolls, shells, pediments, and drapes embellish the interior, eclipsing the historical artifacts and old furniture that now form the Museo Municipal de Historia. It has its own fine tower, though climbing its rickety narrow steps can be a trial if a group has arrived there first.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:The tiny Piro Guinart cigar factory (on Maceo at the corner of Colón) has only about 30 hand rollers and allows visitors to take a peek inside. A block south of the Plaza Mayor are two streets completely given over to sellers of handmade lace and other crafts.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:From the town’s pleasant Plaza Sánchez, wander two blocks south to the main sight, Iglesia Parroquial Mayor de Espíritu Santo. This venerable, towered church has foundations from 1522, making it the country’s oldest (though the present stone church in fact was built in 1680). Nearby is the Puente Yayabo, an early 19th-century bridge that recalls Romanesque bridges in Europe. From the river take the lovely, twisting street Calle Llano, a cobblestoned affair festooned with graceful colonial houses in soft pastels and iron grilles. The nearby Museo de Arte Colonial (Calle Plácido Sur, 74) is an 18th-century palace with two peaceful courtyards and a succession of grandly furnished rooms suffused with a gentle light entering through stained-glass windows.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:There are plenty of possibilities for excursions in the vicinity of Guardalavaca. To the west is Bahía de Bariay, which has a monument claiming Columbus’s landing (a fact contested chiefly by Baracoa, farther east). Beyond the bay is Gibara (27 km/17 miles north of Holguín), a captivating if sleepy little port town. You can take a boat trip into the middle of Bahía de Naranjo to a simple aquarium, where you can swim with the dolphins.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Down the street is the Museo del Carnaval, a museum containing instruments, photos, and artifacts from Santiago’s carnival. It also usually has Afro-Cuban music on weekends, as does the Artex store up the street. Also on Calle Heredia is the Casa Natal de José María Heredia, a cultural center and the birthplace of the Cuban poet who gave his name to this much-trafficked street.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Nearby, on Calle Pío Rosado, the Museo Emilio Bacardí has wide-ranging art, archaeological, and more recent historical collections (including a small, grotesque collection of mummies). The museum, in a shockingly grandiose neoclassic building on a beguiling little street, is named for its benefactor and the town’s former mayor, whose family founded the Bacardí rum empire (which moved its headquarters and production to Puerto Rico after the revolution).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:Just west of the Padre Pico steps (south of the train station) is the one-room César Escalante cigar factory, unimpressive by comparison with other Cuban cigar factories but still an enjoyable place to visit, and the Ron Caney rum factory. The oldest rum distillery in the country, it was established in 1838 by Don Facundo Bacardí (whose descendants fled the country in 1959) and nationalized the following year. The rum produced here now goes under the name “Havana Club.” You can visit only a small museum and bar.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Cuba-WhereToGo.txt:The dry, cactus-strewn landscape of the south coast begins to change as you follow the winding, spectacular 30-km (18.8-mile) road “La Farola” across the mountains to Baracoa (150 km/93 miles from Santiago), a picturesque little village known for its local chocolate and coconut factories. The tropical seaside town is surrounded by green hillsides covered with cocoa and coconut groves, and all around are palm-backed beaches and delightful, sinewy rivers. Named a UNESCO biosphere, Baracoa has no fewer than ten rivers. It’s smack in the middle of the wettest region in Cuba, the reason adventure travelers have their scopes trained on the town’s rivers, ripe for whitewater rafting.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-History.txt:The early history of Nepal is a mixture of fact and myth; religious lore is associated with virtually every landmark and event. Actually, so intertwined are legend and history that it is often impossible to determine where fact leaves off and legend begins. The prime example of this commingling of fact and fiction involves the origin of the Kathmandu Valley.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-History.txt:Legend holds that the Kathmandu Valley was once a vast lake, upon which floated a giant lotus flower, from which emanated the light of Swayambhu, the primordial Buddha. When the Tibetan god Manjushri came to view this light, he was unable to get close enough for a good look, so he took his great sword and slashed through the mountains surrounding the valley to release the waters of the lake. (That is the myth. The fact, according to geologists, is that the Kathmandu Valley was indeed once a lake, though the valley’s waters now drain through the narrow cleft of Chobar Gorge, which was most likely created by a large earthquake.)
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-History.txt:In 1990, in the wake of the Soviet Union’s collapse, Nepalis once again took to the streets to demand an end to the panchayat system. After sometimes bloody protests and under pressure from India’s Congress party, King Birendra finally conceded to allow political parties and the kingdom’s first truly democratic elections were held in 1991. Three years later, the Communist party won a plurality of seats in parliament. However, without a majority, the communists were forced to form a coalition government, and in fact elections since 1994 have repeatedly ended in coalition governments being formed. These governments have proved highly ineffectual in running the country, and by the late 1990s there was growing discontent with the entire democratic process. There was also a growing Maoist uprising taking place in the central hills of the kingdom.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-History.txt:Vishnu is the preserver of life; Shiva is the destroyer whose destruction makes new beginnings possible. The third member of the Hindu “trinity” is Brahma, whose only task was to create the world. All this would be simple enough but for the fact that the gods have appeared on earth in different incarnations, or avatars, with different names, forms, and natures. Some even assimilate Buddhist and primitive, non-Hindu local deities. If you are confused, join the club — so are the experts.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-History.txt:Buddha never claimed to be divine and in fact emphasized that all men could by their own efforts follow his path to enlightenment and the blissful state of nirvana, release from the cycle of repeated births and deaths. His “Four Noble Truths” are: all life is suffering; suffering is caused by desires; desires can be suppressed; and the way to become free of desires is to follow eight “right” principles — the Eightfold Path. These are right views, right intentions, right speech, right conduct, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right contemplation.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:There is nothing to compare with the experience of hiking through a world without automobiles. This is just the experience to be had trekking in Nepal. On the trail, life unfolds at a slower pace, unaffected by Y2K bugs or dot-com stocks. It is the chance to leave behind the hurried and harried pace of today’s modern world that makes trekking in Nepal such a memorable experience. The fact that the nation’s trails wander among the highest mountains on earth and pass through the villages of numerous ethnic groups only adds to what is in effect a step (make that many, many steps) back in time.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:It’s difficult for outsiders to grasp that not only is most of Nepal still beyond the reach of roads, but that there are a lot of people up in those hills as well. Mountain trails take you to villages, not to wilderness as they would in the Alps or the Rockies, and just about every village these days seems to have several lodges offering refreshments, food, and lodging. In fact, on the popular Annapurna Circuit it seems in some villages that every house is a lodge, and even where there are no villages there are sometimes lodges. What this means for trekkers is that there are plenty of options for lodge-to-lodge treks. However, for the full trekking experience, nothing can substitute for the fully-catered tenting trek, which is patterned on the first Everest expeditions of the 1950s.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:As you hike, whether with a fully loaded backpack or just a light daypack, you can’t help marveling at the burdens that porters carry in their dokos (baskets). Everything not made or grown in the villages has to he packed in on the backs of wiry, barefoot porters, who carry loads of as much as 60 kg (130 pounds). Even more amazing is the fact that these baskets have no shoulder straps but only tump lines (forehead straps). You may notice that going downhill, porters take short steps on the balls of their feet with their knees bent. Do the same and you’ll avoid the common complaint of “trekker’s knee.”
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:Langtang, Gosainkund, and Helambu (1–2 weeks). From Kathmandu, take a car or bus up the Trisuli River valley (an adventure in itself) to Dhunche, the entrance to Langtang National Park (there is a small fee to enter, so keep the ticket: it may be requested en route). Making overnight stops at Syabru, Chongong, and Langtang Village, you reach the Langtang Valley, where there are lodges and campsites near Kyanjin Gompa (at 3,800 m/12,467 ft) and also a cheese factory set up with Swiss aid. From here you can explore the yak pastures and glaciers beneath snowy Langtang Lirung. An alternative route leads past the sacred Gosainkund lakes to link with the Helambu circuit for a two-week trek.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:Tibetan artifacts range from copper prayer wheels to cups made from human skulls to long copper horns, silver-lined wooden tea bowls, fur hats, and brass “singing bowls” that resonate when their rim is rubbed in a circular motion.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhatToDo.txt:With two major religions, a multitude of gods, five calendars, and many tribes with their different traditions, Nepal enjoys a profusion of holidays. Throughout the year the country erupts in colorful festivals that sometimes stretch over weeks. These occasions are usually rooted in a rich mixture of fact, legend, and ancient seasonal observances. In a land where daily toil can be hard and diversions few, festivals bring a combination of solace, gaiety, and confirmation of family ties, plus a bid for good fortune.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhereToGo.txt:Second to the mountains are the cities, temples, and shrines of the Kathmandu Valley. Nowhere else on earth is there anything else quite like the valley’s architectural legacy, a fact recognized by Unesco in declaring much of the valley a cultural World Heritage Site to be cherished and protected for all mankind.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhereToGo.txt:On the road back to town, stop at the National Museum to admire its small but select collection of art and artifacts. Here are Licchavi stone reliefs of Shiva and Parvati from the fifth and sixth centuries, the classical period of sculpture. Figures are slimmer and more graceful than the more common balloon-breasted models of the Mallas. A lovely eighth-century Birth of Buddha is curiously reminiscent of Christian nativity scenes. A great Bhairav urn and a comical terra-cotta Ganesh are noteworthy. There’s also a separate wing that holds a collection of Buddhist iconography. The historical wing is filled with ancient weapons, including a leather cannon that must have given gunners a few anxious moments.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhereToGo.txt:The third palace entry is one of the square’s masterpieces — the 17th-century Golden Gate. Above this gilded door can be seen images of Shiva and his consort Parvati. Through the gateway lies the Patan Museum, which houses an impressive collection of art and artifacts from throughout Nepal’s history.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Nepal-WhereToGo.txt:Beyond Pharping and just off the main road lies Chobar Gorge, through which flows the Bagmati River. Legend holds that this gorge was created by the saber of Manjushri (see page 15). It is indeed scarcely wider than a sword slash, crossed by a miniature iron suspension bridge brought from Scotland and portered in at the turn of the century. Below, the Jal Binayak temple to Ganesh stands by the rocks where women do laundry and children dive, while a funeral ghat stands mercifully downstream from these activities. On the wall here, you’ll see what appears to be the Star of David. This is a Hindu emblem of two superimposed triangles, the up-pointing one denoting the male force, the other the female. A bronze rat, Ganesh’s companion, fronts the temple, looking like a dachshund. A cement factory belching smoke is a regrettable addition to this corner of the valley.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/NewOrleans-History.txt:It was also the era of benefactors both in social and cultural fields. One was John McDonogh, who elevated conditions for the ordinary people of the city. A plantation owner of Scottish extraction, he educated and freed many slaves. Most of City Park is land he willed to the children of New Orleans. When he died, a millionaire, in 1850 (back when a million dollars really meant something), he left his money to the city to build schools for the poor. Dozens are still named after McDonogh, who, in effect, founded the city’s public school system.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:Central Paris is surprisingly compact, and most hotels are close to many of the sights. So if time isn’t a major factor, the best way of getting the feel of the place is to walk. All you need is a pair of comfortable shoes and a map. The big department stores and hotels give away millions of street maps each year. Métro stations display good maps of their local district as well as the métro itself, and give out pocket plans of the métro and bus routes. At street level, bus-stop shelters have an excellent detailed map of the neighborhood. More and more streets and entire areas like Les Halles and Beaubourg have been pedestrianized, adding to the profusion of parks, squares, and gardens.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:On of the best times to see the square’s architecture is in the winter, when the chestnut trees are bare and don’t obscure the pink brick and honey-colored stone façades. Victor Hugo, author of Les Misérables, lived at number 6, now a museum housing many of his manuscripts, artifacts, and wonderful drawings.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:Also on the place St-Germain stands the church of St-Germain-des-Prés, the oldest church in Paris. It is a mixture of Romanesque and Gothic, with a clock tower dating from about the year 1000 and a 17th-century porch sheltering 12th-century doorposts. Restored after being used in the Revolution as a gunpowder factory, the church is a popular venue for concerts.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:North of the square, rue Bonaparte leads past the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts (Fine Arts School). This structure incorporates fragments of medieval and Renaissance architecture and sculpture that make it a living museum. During the events of May 1968, students used it as a factory for militant posters.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:Revamping the Musée du Louvre since the 1980s has made this formidable palace of art far more accessible, in all senses. In 1793, when the leaders of the Revolution declared the palace a national museum, the Louvre held 630 works of art; a recent inventory listed 250,000. Don’t be put off — it’s an exhilarating experience just attempting to come to grips with such vast collections of painting, sculpture, and artifacts from 5000 b.c. to 1848 (from which date the Musée d’Orsay’s French collections continue the story to 1914).
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Paris-WhereToGo.txt:It was re-opened in January 2000 after extensive renovation. The combination of public library (1st–3rd floors), children’s and adult workshops (ground floor), cinémathèque, industrial design center, and music laboratory has made the complex a constant hive of activity. The plaza outside is a popular rendezvous point for its free shows. The excellent National Museum of Modern Art on the 5th floor (1905–1960) and 4th floor (contemporary) provides a rewarding education in all the disparate art movements of the 20th century. The collections, regularly rotated from the 45,000 works in reserve, range from the Fauves and Cubism to Abstract Expressionism, Dadaism, Surrealism, and all the breakaway factions and reactions which followed them. The great innovators are all here: Matisse, Picasso, Kandinsky, Duchamps, Pollock, Rauschenberg, and Francis Bacon, as well as the sculptors Brancusi, Arp, Tinguely, Giacometti, and Claes Oldenburg. The 5th floor also attracts crowds to its rooftop restaurant with superb views over Paris.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Poland-WhatToDo.txt:Poland is not an obvious place to take children, perhaps, and in fact few foreigners who haven’t been posted overseas in Poland seem to do it. Traveling with children in Poland is a matter of being flexible, creative, and putting together disparate activities to keep the kids interested when palaces, castles, and rebuilt old towns impress them less than they do their parents. Many of the activities listed below are in the capital, Warsaw, where there is simply a greater abundance of facilities.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Poland-WhatToDo.txt:For older kids that enjoy hiking and skiing, the area around Zakopane in the Tatra mountains is the best in Poland. Among traditional sights, two stand out as especially appealing, or educational, for children. The 700-year-old Wieliczka Salt Mine (near Kraków) — where you first descend 378 steps, then traipse through long corridors and see chapels and figures (including the Seven Dwarves) entirely carved out of salt, and finally zoom up to ground level via a fast and slightly shaky bare-bones elevator — is sure to be cool for kids. Also near Kraków is one visit older children are sure not to forget, though it may demand a lot of explaining and soul-searching on your and their parts. A visit to the Auschwitz concentration camp may not exactly be “fun,” but it certainly is a tremendous and moving learning experience for older children. The administrators of Auschwitz in fact recommend that children under the age of 13 not visit the camp, because the horrors of what happened there, to adults and children, are all too graphic and disturbing.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:The center of Lisbon is small, compact, and easy to get around in just a few days. The city is built on hills — by legend seven, but in fact many more — providing several splendid vantage points. Perhaps the best place to start your tour of Lisbon is from the Moors’ old castle, the Castelo de São Jorge. The fall of the castle to crusaders in 1147 proved crucial in the Reconquest of Portugal from the Moors. From its ramparts you can take in the whole of the city and the broad Rio Tejo (River Tagus), spanned by the longest suspension bridge in Europe.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:Nearby, the atmospheric medieval Alfama district is Lisbon’s most picturesque and fascinating area. It spills down the side of a hill between the Castelo de São Jorge and the Tagus with all the color and bustle of an Arab bazaar. The bairro (district), in fact a legacy of the Moors, is a charming labyrinth of crooked streets, cobbled alleyways, decaying old houses and palaces, fish stalls, and fado music clubs. The Alfama was one of the few areas to survive the earthquake. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:Next door is the city’s finest church, the Igreja de São Francisco, on Rua do Infante D. Henrique. Conventionally Gothic on the outside, the church’s interior is like an explosion in a gold factory. Gilded rococo details swathe the walls from ground to ceiling. The most impressive feature is the “Tree of Jesse,” an elaborately carved, gilded and painted 18th-century wood sculpture on the northern wall. The attention-getting piece depicts the family geneaology of Christ. Opposite the church is a small but interesting museum with relics of the old monastery and catacombs.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:The other notable museum in Guimarães is the Museu de Martins Sarmento, named for the 19th-century excavator of the Citânia de Briteiros, an ancient settlement of Celto-Iberians. Artifacts displayed, recovered from Briteiros and other sites, include carved stone lintels, tools, and several fascinating sculptures, such as the enormous pre-Roman Colossus of Pedralva.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:Just 15 km (9 miles) from Guimarães on the way to Braga is the prehistoric site of Briteiros, set on a rocky hillside overlooking a series of valleys and forested hills. Inhabited by Celt-Iberians from around the 4th century bc to the 4th century ad, the entire hillside is covered with the remains of the best-preserved citânia (Celtic hill settlement) in Portugal. The walls of more than a hundred circular houses are visible — two have been rebuilt to give an idea of what the settlement once looked like — in addition to roads, drainage channels, and a defensive wall. A hike downhill leads to a mysterious structure that has been interpreted both as a burial chamber and as a bath house (it now appears to be the latter). The most impressive artifacts from the site can be viewed in the Martins Sarmento Museum in Guimarães.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:In one corner of the square is the beautiful church of Nossa Senhor Bom Jesus da Cruz, an octagonal baroque building. The old part of town continues on down to the River Cávado. The Palace of the Counts of Barcelos overlooks the river, but was abandoned after the 1755 earthquake. Its shell now houses the various stone artifacts making up the Museu Arqueológico.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:Although it accounts for approximately one third of the country’s land area, these vast, sun-baked plains are sparsely populated. The slow-moving lifestyle has given rise to jokes about its equally slow inhabitants (such as the one about the Alentejano who keeps an empty bottle in the fridge for his friends who don’t drink). In fact, the Alentejo is far more sophisticated and varied than it may first appear, with an excellent wine-making tradition, large aristocratic estates, and some of the country’s historic cities, such as Évora. Massive medieval fortresses stand watch atop steep hills along the Spanish border, and ancient dolmens — megalithic stones — dot the countryside. And for those who absolutely must see the Atlantic, the Alentejo has its own costa, the Costa Azul, or Blue Coast, a lower-key version of the Algarve.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:Flôr da Rosa and Crato are two small agricultural towns west of Portalegre. In the former is one of the best examples of how the state pousada chain is adapting modern architecture to historic buildings. The inn now occupying the 14th-century Convento de Flôr da Rosa is extraordinary. Outside of town, on the road to Aldeia da Mata, is one of the best-preserved dolmens in Portugal, a mysterious prehistoric chamber sitting unobtrusively in rolling pastoral lands. In Crato is a stately square with an interesting Varanda do Grão Prior, with stone arches under a terrace once used for outdoor Mass, and a municipal museum of local handicrafts and artifacts two doors down. Above town are the curious ruins of the castle, now undergoing extensive restoration. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:A steep winding road leads to the dramatically situated medieval walled village Marvão. Perched on an outcrop overlooking Spain, the easygoing town is the highest in Portugal (at 862 m/2,800 ft). The 13th-century castle walls appear woven right into the natural rock; the views from atop the ramparts, of both the white-washed town and surrounding area, are stunning. It’s not hard to understand why the fortress proved virtually impenetrable. Marvão has almost all the charm of Óbidos (see page 43), but without the slickness or tour bus crowds. Just outside the castle entrance is a handsome Museu Municipal, with nice archaeological finds, religious artifacts and altarpieces, and regional costumes. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:The charming, sleepy town of Serpa rises neatly above the plains, 30 km (18 miles) east of Beja, on the route to Spain. Beyond the formidable Porta da Beja, a monumental gate in the city wall, small streets wend among bright white houses. Many of the buildings hide small cheese factories, which produce Serpa’s famous ewe’s milk cheese. The town’s castle was partially destroyed by a Spanish attack in 1707, but still affords enjoyable views. The walls continue past a privately owned 17th-century mansion and on to a slender aqueduct, which ends in an ancient well with a working chain-pulley system for drawing water. A small ethnographic museum displays the wares of the agricultural and industrial workers of the area.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Portugal-WhereToGo.txt:With its triumverate of Moorish, Reconquista, and Renaissance roots clearly visible, Tavira, one of the true gems of the Algarve, is one of the region’s most historically rich cities. In the 1500s, Tavira had the largest population on the Algarve. This tuna-fishing port with its self-assured town of historic churches, imposing classical-style mansions, and beautiful riverfront gardens probably dates back ar least as far as the Phoenicians or the Carthaginians. In fact, its seven-arched stone bridge of Roman origin is still in use. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-History.txt:On 19 November 1493, Columbus was lucky enough to be met by the kindly Taínos (in fact, the name Taíno meant “friend” and was used by the Indians to enable the Europeans to distinguish between them and the not-so-friendly Caribs). The Taínos were the ones who introduced the Spanish to tobacco, corn on the cob, and that archetypal Caribbean mode of relaxation, the hammock.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-History.txt:More Puerto Rican draftees went to war in 1941. Even while poverty lingered from the Great Depression, World War II caused continued hardship on the island because of its isolation in a dangerous sea. But the 1940s saw the emergence of two great political figures: Luis Muñoz Marín, son of Muñoz Marín Rivera and founder of the new Popular Democratic Party, and Rexford Guy Tugwell, Governor of Puerto Rico from 1941 to 1946. These two men were instrumental in orchestrating an amazing economic expansion that almost single-handedly converted the island from an underdeveloped backwater into a pace-setting industrial society. Under “Operation Bootstrap,” which attracted hundreds of new factories to Puerto Rico through tax and other incentives, the per-capita income soared to the highest in Latin America. Life expectancy rose from about 45 years in 1940 to an enviable 71 years today. Pouring one-third of its entire budget into education, Puerto Rico cut illiteracy to about 10 percent.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:To the left is Cuartel de Ballajá (Ballajá Barracks), once the major army barracks under Spanish rule and now a significant cultural attraction. The second floor of the building houses the Museum of the Americas. The museum’s mission is to gather collections of artifacts of Amerindian culture, including folk art, basket-ware from Colombia, and ceremonial masks and costumes from around Central America. 
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:On the western flank of the square you’ll find the Museo del Niño (Children’s Museum). No sterile display cases full of artifacts here! This is an entertaining, hands-on activity center where kids can be kids and yet still have a learning experience. There are four floors of interactive exhibits, including a real dentist’s chair where mom or dad can be examined by their offspring, and a giant bubble machine on the upper floor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:Make your way back to the cathedral along Calle San Juan and turn right once again at Calle Cristo. You’ll pass some interesting shops that might tempt you to browse for a while (the designer outlet stores are particularly popular). Turn right at Calle Fortaleza to reach one of the jewels of San Juan: La Fortaleza. Now the home of the Governor of Puerto Rico, this fort is in fact a historic monument dating back to 1533. It was the first fortification built by the founders of San Juan and has been in constant use since that time. Of course it has grown over the centuries — you’ll find extensions and renovations in the Baroque, Gothic, and Neo-Classic styles. Now a National Historic Site, this fascinating home is full of period furniture. You can tour the house and its extensive gardens, but you must book in advance.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:At the southern end of Calle Cristo, at the edge of the city wall, is tiny Capilla del Cristo. This chapel was said to have been built in the memory of a young man who, in 1753, raced his horse down Calle Cristo, was unable to stop the animal in time, and fell over the wall to his death. Others say that, in fact, the chapel was built to commemorate the fact that the boy was saved by divine intervention at this very spot. Whichever is true, the chapel now stands as a barrier to any other such mishap.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:Back on Calle Fortaleza, walk east until you reach the Casa de Callejón (House of the Alley) on the corner of Callejón de Capilla. A fine example of an 18th-century house, it is now the Museum of the Puerto Rican Family, full of the furniture, toys, and other daily artifacts of a well-to-do San Juan family.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:North of Ponce are attractions of a different kind. Take Route 503 out of town — this road runs along the banks of the Río Portuguéz — and after about a mile and a half (2 km) you’ll arrive at the Tibes Indian Ceremonial Park, one of the most important Amerindian archaeological sites in the Caribbean. The ceremonial site and cemetery are across the river, and you may not enter without a guide. A small museum explains the known history of the Amerindian races; it has a number of cabinets holding artifacts, as well as a skeleton, still in the traditional fetal burial position. Once you’re into the park, the ceremonial grounds come into view. Open spaces discovered since the 1960s are now believed to be used for “ball games,” which had an important though as yet only poorly understood ceremonial purpose in Indian culture.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:Route 129 from Arecibo leads to one of the most important and mysterious scientific instruments in the world. Arecibo Observatory has the largest single-dish radio telescope in the world; 1,000 ft (305 m) in diameter, it has been silently scanning the universe, making maps of distant solar systems, and listening for messages from other planets since 1960. The Observatory is part of Cornell University’s National Astronomy and Ionosphere Center; it operates 24 hours a day. The center likes to emphasize the serious scientific work it undertakes — such as detecting extremely weak radio pulses from the very corners of the known universe, which take 100 million years to reach the earth. Some visitors are more impressed by the fact that the observatory was used for location shots in the James Bond film Goldeneye and, more recently, in Contact, starring Jodie Foster. A viewing platform allows you to look down on the massive dish, and in the education center, opened in 1997, visitors can undertake simple and safe experiments to learn more about physics and the solar system.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:From Lares take Route 111 to reach the most important Amerindian site on Puerto Rico, the Parque Ceremonial Indígena Caguana (Caguana Indian Ceremonial Park). The park is set in a wide valley surrounded by limestone peaks, one of which is said to represent the supreme god of the Taínos. The several ceremonial ball courts discovered and excavated here suggest the site was one of the Indians’ major centers of worship. The Taínos were still living happily on the island when Columbus arrived in 1493; archaeological finds here date back to 1200 b.c. The ball courts, edged with stones — some with symbols carved on them — are set in fine gardens planted with many native tree species. A small museum displays pottery and other artifacts found at the site.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/PuertoRico-WhereToGo.txt:Next to the fort is the pretty Legislature building with a classical façade painted bright lime green. Finished in 1874, the building was originally used as a barracks for troops based at the fort. Behind the fort and the Vendors Plaza is Emancipation Park, perhaps the one place in town where you can sit in the shade of the trees and enjoy the cooling sea breeze after your sightseeing and shopping. The park was named to commemorate the freeing of the slaves in 1848. Across Tolbod Gade is the Tourist Information Office, where you can pick up maps and other information. On the northern corner of Tolbod Gade is the main post office. Make your way in that direction, but don’t be tempted to turn right and head for the stores just yet. Take the steps to Kongens Gade, which is the street behind the Lutheran Church. The steps climb onto the steep hill that has many of the oldest and most important buildings of Danish Charlotte Amalie. The family houses of the merchants and civil servants where built high on this rise — named Government Hill — to take advantage of the cooling breeze. Kongens Gade itself has several buildings dating back to the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Hotel 1829, named for the year in which it was built, sits amid other fine homes. Walk past Hotel 1829 and pause at the steps beside it, which climb higher onto Government Hill. These are the 99 Steps, one of a series built by the Danes in the mid 1700s to allow pedestrian access to the town below. The 99 Steps are the longest in town, but whoever named the flight must have become tired toward the end and miscounted — there are in fact 103.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-History.txt:The region’s history has some marked differences from the history of Mexico as a country. Although artifacts show that both the Aztec and Olmec pre-Hispanic cultures had a presence in the area, ancient civilizations created no notable settlements here. This fact, coupled with the geography of the region, spared it much of the bloodshed and turmoil of the Spanish conquest. With the imposing Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range running the length of the Pacific coastline, isolating it from the rest of mainland Mexico, the Pacific coast was able to develop at a slower, more tranquil pace.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-History.txt:The port of Manzanillo continued to quietly exist until 1889, when a railroad connected it inland. Telephone, electricity, drainage, and potable water services followed. These improvements helped transform Manzanillo into the modern port and manufacturing center it is today.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-History.txt:Many regard Acapulco as the original Mexican beach resort with its glimmering beaches and glitzy nightlife. Yet its history extends far beyond its present-day appeal — artifacts found here date back to 2500 b.c. Inhabitants of this zone are known to have traded with several cultures, possibly including the Polynesians. There is clear evidence of trade with the Tarascan, Mixtec, and Zapotec empires that extended to the north and south of Acapulco prior to Mexico’s conquest by Spain.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhatToDo.txt:There is no doubt that Acapulco rules when it comes to nightlife. In fact, I would venture that most visitors here come especially for that. Anyone that believes disco is dead hasn’t been to Acapulco — it’s alive and well, and happens nightly in an array of clubs that get going around midnight and often close after the sun comes up. The most majestic of these, Enigma, Palladium, and Fantasy, are located in the Las Brisas section of town, with towering, floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking stunning views of Acapulco Bay in all its night-lit splendor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhatToDo.txt:If Acapulco’s legendary fame reached its zenith in the 1940s and 1950s, why not visit a legend of a nightspot? The photos on the walls of Pepe’s Piano Bar attest to the fact it has hosted more stars than the Acapulco sky — many of whom have joined in to entertain the audience in this red-velvet enclave of lounge music and martinis. Another exclusively Acapulco night spot is Salon Q, located across from the Convention Center. This Latin dance club features live shows each weekend with impersonators doing their best on the hottest talents of the day. Tequilas Le Club, located in the old section of town, is a long-standing Acapulco cabaret that offers two female impersonator shows nightly — one “international” version, with the later show featuring Latin divas.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhatToDo.txt:In Puerto Escondido and Huatulco, you’ll find an abundance of tequila’s close cousin, mezcal. Mezcal is distilled from the juice of more common types of maguey plants found in the central region of Mexico. It has a stronger taste and smell than tequila. Oaxacan mezcal is the type that is bottled with a maguey worm pickled in the bottom of the bottle. To the ancient Mexicans, the maguey plant was considered sacred, and the fact that the worm had ingested a part of the “spirit” of this revered plant made consuming them both a delicacy and a way to obtain good luck. Salud!
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhatToDo.txt:You can also find Huichol ceremonial and everyday life artifacts for sale at galleries that specialize in Huichol art. As a rule, none of the objects offered for sale — especially those deemed ceremonial, such as the Muvieris and Marakame hats and chairs — have been used in actual ceremonies. In the Huichol culture it is considered a sacrilege to commercialize sacred objects. Visitors should be aware of this and respect their culture by not attempting to purchase sacred or ceremonial pieces.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:Just beyond the plaza is the Cuale River, and in its center, a shady retreat — an island, found between the two traffic bridges. Birds twitter, men read the papers over a cup of coffee, and a little girl plays with an iguana outside a shop that sells the same reptiles stuffed. At the western end of the island, the small Museo Río Cuale features archeological artifacts found in the region. Adjoining the upper bridge, the municipal mercado (market) has a range of handicrafts for sale, with traditional foods sold on the second floor.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:As you depart the downtown area, you pass by the Museo Universitario de Arqueología de Manzanillo (University Museum of Archeology in Manzanillo) — easily the region’s most impressive collection of regional historical artifacts — and the large commercial wharves before reaching the turnoff to Las Brisas. This long stretch of golden sand beach on a peninsula separates Manzanillo bay from the San Pedrito lagoon, another birdwatching haven. Las Brisas Peninsula is where several older, budget hotels are located, along with a handful of recommendable restaurants. In general, this section of Manzanillo is quite run-down, having never recovered from damage caused by a 1995 earthquake.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:The centerpiece of downtown is its zócalo (central plaza), heavily laden with shade trees and bordered by Acapulco’s principal church, Nuestra Señora de la Soledad, as well as numerous, inexpensive cafés and restaurants. This church is one of the more notable structures in Acapulco The blue onion-like domes are more Russian Orthodox than Roman Catholic in style — in fact, the structure was originally built as a movie set. Every Sunday evening, local bands serenade the plaza’s numerous visitors. Across from the plaza is the beach, Playa Manzanillo, where sport-fishing charters, as well as pleasure and excursion boats depart.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:The village of Taxco sits atop a hill among the tumbling hillsides of the Sierra Madre Mountains, which were once rich with silver. Though the mines have mostly been tapped out, Taxco’s reputation as the Silver City of Mexico remains, due to the skilled workmanship and artistry of local silversmiths in creating silver jewelry and other artifacts.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:Among the numerous silversmith shops here, you’ll find several landmarks. Most notable is the Church of San Sebastián and Santa Prisca, located on Plaza Borda. This elaborate church was built by silver magnate Joseph Borda as a show of his appreciation to the town and to the Almighty for the wealth he accumulated here. Additional attractions are the Museo de Taxco Guillermo Spratling, featuring a collection of pre-Columbian artifacts, the Silver Museum, and the Casa Humboldt, which details the past of this historic town.
written_2/travel_guides/berlitz2/Vallarta-WhereToGo.txt:It’s biggest draw are the 36 beaches spread across the 35 km (22 miles) of coastline and nine bays, most of them still undeveloped. The fact that the area has been slow to catch on has resulted in a curious mix of ultra-modern infrastructure, and unspoiled natural areas. Huatulco has what it takes to attract visitors — including golf, tennis, water sports, fishing, a few restaurants and night spots, luxury accommodations, and direct flights from selected US cities — but hasn’t developed its own distinct personality yet. For now, Huatulco is ideal for those who want to enjoy the beauty of nature during the day, then retreat to the well-appointed comfort of a luxury hotel by night.
